.cs 2 on
.cs 3 on
.item NEWSREADERS 'Updated on 03/27/97 by JNK'
NEWSREADERS

               Reading Usenet Newsgroups At Stanford

January 1997                                         ITSS Customer Assistance

"Newsgroup" is Internet talk for what is otherwise known as an "electronic
bulletin board." The collective name for all Internet newsgroups is Usenet.

Many such newsgroups originate here at Stanford, some of them intended for use
by students of a particular course, others of interest to participants in
extra- curricular activities.  Stanford newsgroups normally circulate no
farther than the campus intranet.  The majority of Usenet newsgroups, however,
circulate all over the world.

To read and write to newsgroups, you not only need a networked personal
computer, but also a "newsreader" program.  As with most things Internet these
days, you have a choice between two basic kinds of newsreader programs:  those
that you install and run from your personal computer (for example, Netscape,
described below); and those that you run while logged onto a larger host
computer (for example, trn, described below).

Either way, the newsreader software you use will enable you to browse through a
list of all available newsgroups (which come into Stanford via the campus "news
server"); select a newsgroup for further perusal; read individual "postings" to
a newsgroup; and compose and send your own postings.

Newsreaders vary somewhat in capabilities.  While all of them give you basic
browsing, reading and writing ability, some of them also include powerful
sorting and filtering features.

Here are descriptions of two newsreaders that are used and supported at
Stanford:

Netscape
========

   Netscape, well known as a World-Wide-Web "browser," also features a built-in
   newsreader.  Netscape is a good choice if you already have it on your
   computer and think that your newsreading will be of the casual kind that
   doesn't warrant installing a more complicated reader.

   Before Netscape can present you with a list of available Usenet newsgroups,
   you must configure it so that it knows how to fetch the list from the campus
   "news server." Pull down Netscape's Options menu; select "Mail and News
   Preferences".  In the dialog box that opens, click the "Servers" tab at the
   top.  In the new dialog box that opens, look for the space labeled "News
   (NNTP) Server." Type

                            nntp.stanford.edu

   in this space, then click OK.

   Now you're ready to browse the list of Usenet newsgroups.  To open it, pull
   down Netscape's Window menu and choose "Netscape News".  A new Netscape
   window will open.  In the top left pane is an entry for Nntp.stanford.edu.
   Double-click this entry, wait a few seconds, then pull down Netscape's
   Options menu and choose "Show all newsgroups." A master list of all Usenet
   newsgroups, grouped by category into folders, will appear in the top left
   pane under the Nntp.stanford.edu entry.

   To learn more about Netscape's newsreader, go to Netscape's online Handbook,
   at (http://home.netscape.com/eng/mozilla/2.02/handbook/).  You can also
   learn a lot simply by exploring Netscape's menus.

   Netscape software can be obtained via authenticated FTP from the campus FTP
   server called site-licensed.stanford.edu.  Be prepared to furnish your
   Leland ID and password to get access to this server.

   IMPORTANT NOTE:  While using Netscape's newsreader, you may notice another
   Netscape feature under the Window menu called Netscape Mail.  Netscape Mail
   is *not* supported at Stanford.

trn
===

   trn is a newsreader that runs on the Leland system.  If you know how to log
   onto the Leland system, you can start trn at a command prompt to browse,
   read and post to Usenet newsgroups.  trn features sophisticated "threading"
   capabilities that enable you sort and otherwise manipulate postings that are
   all on the same "thread" (i.e., topic).

   More information about trn is located at
   http://consult.stanford.edu/cpub/news/trn.  You'll quickly see that trn,
   like other Unix programs, is not only extremely powerful but also
   intimidating to novices.  trn is definitely more complex than using Netscape
   to read newsgroups.

   To start trn, login to the Leland system, and type:

       trn

   at a command prompt.

Other Newsreaders
===========

   Although Netscape and trn are the only newsreaders that are "supported" by
   Stanford computer help desks, they're by no means the only ones available.
   Others include Newswatcher and Nuntius for the Macintosh, and Free Agent and
   WinVN for Windows PCs.  Some of these are easy enough to install and use
   that you may very well succeed with them on your own, without the advice and
   help of a campus computer consultant.

   An excellent discussion of Mac newsreaders is in Chapter 22 of the Web
   version of Adam Engst's Internet Starter Kit, at

               http://www.mcp.com/hayden/iskm/mac.html
.cs 3 off
.cs 2 off
