                  PC-Stanford - Some Quick Information


WHAT IS PC-STANFORD?

   PC-Stanford consists of the following software programs:

   1. PathWay Access for DOS (licensed from The Wollongong Group):

       * PathWay Runtime - TCP/IP kernel for DOS
       * PathWay Access - TCP/IP applications (DOS and Windows)

   2. PathWay NFS Client for DOS (licensed from The Wollongong Group)

   3. PC-Samson - Samson Telnet client for DOS (from Stanford University)

   4. Samson for Windows - Samson Telnet client for Windows (from
                           Stanford University)

   5. SGOPHER - DOS Gopher client (from Stanford University)

   6. WHOIS - DOS Whois client (from Stanford University)

   7. PCNFSD - Supporting software for NFS servers (freeware from
               Baylor College of Medicine)

   Some of PC-Stanford's networking applications are licensed for
   Stanford users only.  Observe all copyright notices and license
   agreements.



WHO SHOULD UPGRADE?

   Pathway 3.0

   If you currently use Pathway 2.x or WinTCP from Wollongong, you
   should upgrade to Pathway 3.0.  Pathway 3.0 includes improvements
   to the TCP/IP kernel which make it more reliable and robust,
   especially if you are using network services such as Gopher or
   Mosaic.  The applications included in Pathway 3.0 (e.g., Telnet,
   FTP) have been improved from previous versions, so you are
   encouraged to upgrade, regardless of whether you are running
   Windows or DOS.


   Samson for Windows 1.0

   This is the first release of a Windows version of Samson, the
   terminal emulation software commonly used at Stanford.  If you
   have a PC running Windows 3.1 you are encouraged to upgrade from
   PC-Samson to Samson for Windows, regardless of whether you
   connect via SUNet or via a serial connection (modem or gandalf).
   Samson for Windows features mouse support for copy, paste, and
   cursor placement; multiple simultaneous sessions; sizable
   windows; choices of font styles and sizes; and many other
   features.

   If you plan to use Samson for Windows over SUNet or via a SLIP
   connection, you will need to upgrade to Pathway 3.0.  If you plan
   to use Samson for Windows with a modem to connect directly to the
   Stanford modem pools you do not need Pathway 3.0.


   SLIP

   Individuals who wish to use SLIP to dial in to SUNet are
   encouraged to upgrade as well.



HOW DO YOU GET PC-STANFORD?

   You are strongly encouraged to contact your Expert Partner, Local
   Network Administrator (LNA) or Resident Computer Consultant (RCC)
   for help in getting and installing PC-Stanford.

   Alternatively, you can pick up a copy yourself from:

   A. FTP Server

      All PC-Stanford software programs and documents are available
      via authenticated FTP from:

           FTP server: site-licensed.stanford.edu.
             Login ID: <your afs id or Leland id>
             Password: <your afs password>
            Directory: pc/pcstanford


   B. Packet of PC-Stanford Diskettes and Documents

      A packet containing all PC-Stanford software programs and documents
      is available for the nominal fee of $25 from Networking Systems,
      115 Pine Hall, 723-3909, e-mail address: pcip@jessica.stanford.edu.


   C. Spruce Hall Disk Exchange

      Diskettes containing the PC-Stanford software programs
      are available from the Stanford Data Center, Spruce Hall, in
      exchange for 10 new, unused high-density 3.5" or 5.25"
      diskettes.


   D. Publish Facility on Forsythe

      Documents accompanying PC-Samson and Samson for Windows are
      available via the Publish facility on Forsythe (and via the
      FTP server described above).  They are also included in the
      packet sold by Networking Systems.
