.cs 3 on
.cs 2 on
.cm 'PORTFOLIO' 'Added on 04/25/94 by JNK'
WHAT IS PORTFOLIO?

Portfolio, the beginning of a new Campus-Wide Information System (CWIS), will
provide access to the vast array of information resources stored in electronic
form on computers at Stanford and around the world.  It is being developed by
the Stanford University Libraries and the Stanford Data Center and is one of
the first examples of Libraries and Information Resources planned migration
from mainframe-based to network- based technologies.  It is built with standard
marketplace tools and protocols.

Portfolio presents cataloged and managed collections of university information,
including documents, publications, database queries, applications, library
catalogs and gateways to the Internet.

While many of its features are still under construction, Portfolio's document
collection currently contains hundreds of documents and publications
contributed by major information providers on campus.  In addition, Portfolio
provides the ability to search and retrieve university resources using words in
their title or description, or by searching the full text contents of the
documents themselves.  Work is in progress with every major campus publisher to
include their information in Portfolio.  By the end of the year, the university
collection is expected to grow to several thousand resources.

Applications in the initial release include Stanford Travel Request, Bookstore
Ordering, Purchase Order information, MajorQuest as well as the multimedia
guide to the Stanford University Libraries.

Portfolio comes with a software program for the Macintosh (a PC Windows version
will come later) that enables users to browse through or search for information
using the familiar Macintosh interface.

Packaged with the Macintosh program are a set of viewers that aid in viewing or
printing text with special fonts or complex graphics (Common Ground); viewing
images or video clips; or playing sounds.

The Portfolio information environment is compatible, with some limitations,
with most popular network navigational tools including Gopher+ and Mosaic.

Portfolio is being continually expanded and refined.  Those using Portfolio are
encouraged to offer their suggestions on ways the system could be improved or
what additional items they would like to have access to in Portfolio.  Users
can send email to portfolio@stanford, phone 725-8181, or use the built-in "Send
Suggestion" feature in the Macintosh version.

Each of the "options" below describes an access method for Portfolio:

MAC      if you would like to put Portfolio on your Macintosh
OTHER    if you would like to access Portfolio with a PC or UNIX machine
OFF      if you would like to use Portfolio off-campus

.* SELECT 'Portfolio Access Method'
.us Portfolio Access Methods

.* OPTION MAC
HOW TO PUT PORTFOLIO ON YOUR MACINTOSH

Please follow the steps below to get the Portfolio software onto
your Macintosh.  You are strongly urged to read the "Portfolio 1.0
Release Notes" included with the Portfolio program which contain
important information.

You can get Portfolio over SUNet if you have access to a campus Mac
that displays a list of AppleTalk zones when you open its Chooser.

You'll only need to follow this procedure now.  All future versions
of Portfolio will be available through Portfolio itself.  After you
copy it to your hard disk, you'll start it from there each time you
want to use it.

1. Go to the Apple menu and select Chooser.

2. Connect to the file server. To do this:
   - Click on the AppleShare icon,
   - select the "Stanford" zone in the lower left box, then
   - choose the file server called "Computing" from the list on the right.
   - click "OK."

3. Login as "guest". To do this:
   - In the next box that appears, make sure the "Guest" button is
     selected,
   - click "OK."

4. Find the right item on the "Computing" Server. To do this:
   - In the next box that comes up, "Computing Distribution" should
     be the first item in the list, and already selected, so just
   - click "OK."
   - close the Chooser.
   - After a few seconds, an icon labeled "Computing Distribution"
     will appear on your desktop.
 **-If you get a message about the file server closing down, just
    click OK and proceed.  If you get a message that says there are
    too many users right now, please try again after a few minutes
    or after 'peak' hours.

5. Get the Portfolio software onto your hard disk. To do this:
   - Open "Computing Distribution."  Inside you'll see many folders,
   - Open the folder called "Mac Software & Docs,"
   - Inside "Mac Software & Docs" is the "Portfolio Folder."
   - Drag "Portfolio Folder" to your own hard disk and wait till
     it finishes copying.
   - When the copying has finished, be sure to disconnect from the
     server by dragging the "Computing Distribution" icon from your
     desktop into the Trash.

6. For Users of Previous Versions:

   - If you have already created some bookmarks files that you want to keep,
     - drag them from your old Portfolio Folder into the new
       Portfolio Folder.
- If you would like to automatically open one of those bookmarks
     files when you use Portfolio, you must:
     - make sure its name is "Bookmarks", and
     - after you start up Portfolio, modify the Preferences (from
       the File menu) to tell Portfolio to open the Bookmarks file.

7. For Users of Previous Versions:

   - When you have completed the steps above (including #6), trash
     your old Portfolio folder along with any old release notes and
     help files.


HOW TO GET HELP

If you have problems retrieving or installing Portfolio, your Expert
Partner or Residential Computing Consultant will be the best place
to start.  If you have further questions please call 5-8181.

.* OPTION OTHER
HOW TO ACCESS PORTFOLIO IF YOU DON'T HAVE A MACINTOSH

You'll be least perplexed by these methods of using Portfolio from a PC or Unix
computer if you're already familiar with some kind of Internet navigator - such
as Mosaic - and just need to know how to get into Portfolio with it.  You'll
also find them useful if you need some clues as to where to find navigator
software.  But if you don't know how to use FTP to obtain such Internet
navigator software, you'll need to consult your Expert Partner, Residential
Computing Consultant, or Local Network Administrator.

Most of the navigators mentioned here require you to have TCP/IP network driver
software of some kind on your desktop computer.  An example of such software is
Wollongong's Pathway, which many people on campus are using to enable them to
run PC-Samson or Pathway Access over SUNet.  If you're unsure whether you have
such software on your desktop computer, consult your Expert Partner,
Residential Computing Consultant, or Local Network Administrator.

Keep in mind that if you don't have the kind of setup that allows you to make a
TCP/IP connection from your desktop computer, you can always try logging onto a
campus host, such as Cardinal, that features an online Gopher navigator.  See
"Gopher on a Unix host such as Cardinal," below.

No matter how you connect to Portfolio, if your connection has been successful
you should always see the following home directory:

     Find Portfolio Items by Name or Description
     Search the Contents of All Portfolio Documents
     About Portfolio
     The Campus
     The Classroom
     The Community
     Computing at Stanford
     The Library
     The Office
     Research at Stanford
     Student Life
     The World

If you get a garbled or incomplete version of this directory, you can conclude
that something's wrong with your setup or with the navigator you're using.


IF YOU HAVE A DOS PC, BUT DON'T HAVE WINDOWS 3.1 . . .

-Stanford Gopher for IBM PC/clone

Try this navigator if you already have Pathway network software installed on
your PC for some other purpose, e.g., to run with PC-Samson or Pathway Access.
Stanford Gopher is available at netserver via FTP to anyone who has a
Leland/Cardinal account; its Netserver directory is
/pc/pcstanford/extra/gopher.  To access Portfolio with the Stanford Gopher,
type

  sgopher portfolio 1970

at your PC's DOS prompt.

The Stanford Gopher is a "plain-Gopher" navigator, which means that not all
Portfolio resources will be available to you.  Some items marked "dir" won't
open for you.  You will, however, be able to use Portfolio's two top-level
searching tools to search the collection, and you'll be able to view plain-text
versions of all Portfolio documents.


-Gopher on a Unix host such as Cardinal, etc.

If you don't have an Ethernet connection to SUNet but can log on to a campus
Unix host such as Cardinal, try using the host's online Gopher navigator.  Not
all campus Unix hosts feature a Gopher navigator, but you may as well try.  Log
on to the host, and at the command prompt, type

  gopher portfolio 1971

If Gopher is present, you'll soon get the Portfolio directory; if not, you'll
get some sort of error message.  Some campus hosts may feature only an older,
plain-Gopher version of the Gopher navigator.  If typing gopher portfolio 1971
seems to give you less-than- excellent results, try

  gopher portfolio 1970

instead.

If you're able to make a successful Gopher+ connection at port 1971, you'll be
able to access almost all Portfolio resources, including data base query links.
A few items, such as those tagged with an HQX, won't be usable by you.

If you connect to port 1970 you'll get a plain-Gopher view of Portfolio, in
which case fewer Portfolio resources will be available to you.  You will,
however, be able to use Portfolio's two top-level searching tools to search the
collection, and you'll be able to view plain-text versions of all Portfolio
documents.


IF YOU HAVE A DOS PC WITH WINDOWS 3.1 . . .

We are planning a Windows release of the Portfolio client during Fall Quarter,
but, until then.....

-Mosaic for Windows

Mosaic for Windows is a highly popular Internet navigator, available via
anonymous FTP from ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu.  It can use Pathway as its network
software.

To access Portfolio with Mosaic, use the following URL:
  gopher://portfolio.stanford.edu:1970/

Mosaic can give you only a "plain-Gopher" view of Portfolio, which means that
not all Portfolio resources will be available to you.  Some folders won't open
for you.  However, you will be able to use Portfolio's two top-level searching
tools to search the collection, and you'll be able to view plain-text versions
of all Portfolio documents.


-WSGopher

WSGopher is a freeware package available via anonymous FTP from many Internet
sites, including the Gopher Home, boombox.micro.umn.edu.  It can use Pathway as
its network software.  To access Portfolio with WSGopher, configure it to
connect it to portfolio.stanford.edu, port 1970.  If there's a checkbox for
Gopher+ in the configuration dialog, make sure it remains unchecked.  Because
of some apparent WSGopher limitations still under investigation, WSGopher can
provide you only with a plain-Gopher view of Portfolio.  Although some
directories won't open for you, you will be able to use Portfolio's two
top-level searching tools, and you'll be able to view plain-text versions of
all Portfolio documents.

We're working with the WSGopher developer to overcome the apparent limitations
on its performance with Portfolio, and hope to have a resolution soon.  When
that happens, WSGopher will probably give you more complete access to Portfolio
resources than either Mosaic or HGopher.  (As soon as the matter is resolved,
you may have to fetch a more recent version of WSGopher.)


-HGopher

HGopher is a widely used freeware Gopher+ navigator available, like WSGopher,
from the Gopher Home, boombox.micro.umn.edu.  It, too, can use the Pathway
network software provided by Networking Systems.  To access Portfolio with
HGopher, first configure it so that it doesn't "prefetch Gopher+ attributes,"
then configure it to connect to portfolio.stanford.edu, port 1970.

Because of some apparent HGopher limitations still under investigation, HGopher
can provide you only with a plain-Gopher view of Portfolio.  Although some
directories won't open for you, you will be able to use Portfolio's two
top-level searching tools, and you'll be able to view plain-text versions of
all Portfolio documents.


IF YOU USE A UNIX HOST OR WORKSTATION . . .

-Mosaic for X-Windows

See the notes for Mosaic for Windows.  We haven't yet had a chance to test the
X-Windows version of Mosaic.

-Gopher on a Unix host such as Cardinal, etc.

See this same sub-heading under "If you have a DOS PC, but don't have Windows
3.1 .  .  ."

.* OPTION OFF

HOW TO USE PORTFOLIO OFF-CAMPUS

You can use Portfolio's Macintosh navigator at home via a SLIP
connection over your phone line.  You should have a 14,400 bps modem
or faster and MacSLIP software.  MacSLIP is available to Stanford
users; call Brian Waugh, Networking Systems, 3-7613.

If you don't have the means to make a SLIP connection but know how
to log on to a Unix host (e.g., Cardinal) from home, you can try
connecting to Portfolio from the host.  See 'How to Access Portfolio
if You Don't Have a Macintosh' in the 'About Portfolio' folder in
Portfolio.
.cs 2 off
.cs 3 off
