.cs 2 on
.item Printer 'Updated 11/04/85 by LSO'
PRINTER

The following printer program options tell the system how to select and
process jobs on a local printer connected to the Forsythe system:

    DEST=dest   SEP|NOSEP   FORMS=form   LIMIT=n   PRINTER=prt   SPEED=n

The following printer program commands can be used to control the operation of
a local printer after it has been connected to the system:

    SELECT    - select specific jobs for special printing
    WYLBUR    - temporarily suspend printing and return to WYLBUR
    EXIT      - exit from the printer program and return to WYLBUR
    PAUSE     - pause after the current job has finished printing

    RESTART   - restart the current job from the beginning
    CANCEL    - stop printing the current job and remove it from the system
    REQUEUE   - stop printing the current job and return it to the output
                queue
    BACKUP n  - continue printing after repeating the last 'n' pages
    FWD n     - continue printing after moving forward 'n' pages

.* SELECT 'Enter option or command names'

.* OPTION DEST
DEST=destid     The printer will print jobs which have the specified DEST code.
                You must specify a DEST option when you start your printer.


.* OPTION FORMS
FORMS=form      The printer will only print jobs which have the specified
                forms code.

FORMS=ALL       The printer will print jobs with any forms code.  This is the
                default FORMS option.


.* OPTION LIMIT
LIMIT=n         The printer will not print jobs with more than 'n' lines.

LIMIT=0         The printer will print jobs of any size.  This is the default
                LIMIT option.


.* OPTION SEP,NOSEP
SEP             The printer will print a separator page for each job.  This is
                the default option.

NOSEP           The printer will not print any separator pages.

.* OPTION SPEED
SPEED=n         This specifies the speed of your printer in characters per
                second.  This option can be used with printers that print
                at a specific character speed.  For these printers specifying
                the SPEED option helps the system to maintain synchronization
                with the printer.

.* OPTION PRINTER
PRINTER=prt     This option specifies the type of printer that you are using.
                The system knows the printer type normally used with your DEST
                code, so you do not need to specify this option unless you are
                switching between different types of printers.  Currently the
                valid printer types are PRINTER=LASERJET and PRINTER=ASCII.

.* OPTION EXIT
EXIT            This command will terminate the printer program and return you
                to WYLBUR.  If a job is currently printing then you will be
                returned to WYLBUR after print is complete unless you terminate
                printing by using the CANCEL or REQUEUE commands.

.* OPTION PAUSE
PAUSE           This command tells the printer program to pause after it has
                finished printing the current job.

.* OPTION RESTART
RESTART         This command causes printing of the current job to be restarted
                from the beginning.

.* OPTION CANCEL
CANCEL          This command causes printing of the current job to be stopped,
                and the job removed from the system.

.* OPTION REQUEUE
REQUEUE         This command causes printing of the current job to be stopped,
                and the job is returned to the output queue to be printed again.

.* OPTION BACKUP
BACKUP n        This command causes the printer to repeat the last 'n' pages
                of the current job, and then continue printing.

.* OPTION FWD
FWD n           This command causes the printer to forward space 'n' pages in
                the current job, and then continue printing.

.* OPTION SELECT
SELECT jobid [NOSEP] [NOREV]

The SELECT command selects specific jobs for immediate printing.  The jobs can
be specified in the following ways:

   SELECT n        - select a job by job number
   SELECT ABC      - select jobs whose names begin with the
                     specified characters ('ABC' in this example)

   Multiple jobs can be specified in parentheses:  SELECT (X Y Z)

After a SELECT command is entered, the printer will print jobs queued for your
printer only if they match the specified SELECT option.

The SELECT command is designed to assist in printing jobs which need special
printer setup (for example, special paper or a font cartridge that is not
normally used in the printer).  Jobs which need special printer setup can be
put in the queue in output hold, so that they will not print before the
printer is ready for them.  When the jobs are in the queue, you can print them
by going through the following steps:

    - Stop the printer by hitting the break key on the printer terminal; this
      will prevent any new jobs from starting to print.

    - Change the physical setup of the printer as needed.

    - enter a SELECT command specifying the jobs you want to print next; only
      the jobs which you select will be sent to the printer.  The selected
      jobs will be printed even if they are still in output hold, or have a
      forms code which is different from the FORMS option set for the printer.

After the selected jobs have been printed, the printer program will pause and
issue a prompt.  At this point you can enter another SELECT command or you can
restore the printer to its normal physical setup and then hit RETURN.  When
you hit RETURN the system will resume normal scheduling for your printer,
using the options which were in effect before the SELECT command was entered.

The NOSEP option can be specified on the SELECT command; it tells the system
to not print a separator page for the specified jobs.

On the LaserJet printer the system normally prints the pages of a job in
reverse order, so that they are collated correctly in the stacker.  The NOREV
option can can be added to the SELECT command to tell the system to not print
the pages in reverse order.

.* OPTION WYLBUR
WYLBUR

You can use the WYLBUR command to temporarily return to WYLBUR.  If a job is
currently being printed then printing will resume when you return to the
printer program by typing 'GO'.

While you are in WYLBUR you can issue any of the standard system commands.
However, if you issue a command which causes an ORVYL program to be called,
you will immediately terminate the printer program; this will happen if you
enter EMS or call SPIRES.  If this happens and a job was being printed then
the job will be returned to the output queue to be printed again.

Some system commands can be entered directly from the printer program, without
first typing 'WYLBUR'.  The following commands can be entered this way:

   LOCATE  HOLD  RELEASE  ALTER  PURGE  SHOW  LOGON  LOGOFF
.cs 2 off
