UserIDs on the Forsythe Computer

Basic Information

If you have a Forsythe account, you can now choose and set a UserID for it.
That UserID, which is usually set to the account user's name (example:
Robert.Lee), can be used in many places where the "gg.uuu" account number can
be used.

To set a UserID for the account you are using:

1. Choose a UserID. Please review the guidelines in the following 2 columns for
suggestions. (You can see if someone already has your choice by issuing the
command "SHOW USERID choice", replacing "choice" with the UserID you want.)

2. On Forsythe, issue this command:

         SET USERID

You will be asked to type your UserID choice and then to verify it.

That's all you need to do! Additionally, you may want to consider:

* changing your email address in any directories in which you are
  listed (see back page)

* choosing and setting aliases (see the guidelines for a description).
  To set from 1 to 3 aliases, issue the command:

        SET ALIAS alias1, alias2, alias3

Put all the aliases you want for your account on the command each time you
issue it; the command always replaces the previous list of aliases. To get rid
of all aliases, type SET ALIAS NONE.

Guidelines for Setting UserIDs and Aliases

Your UserID will appear in electronic-mail headers, in the online EMS directory
(the WHO command), and, if you choose, in the Stanford Directory and other
online directories (such as the WHOIS command). It will be the primary address
that people not using the Forsythe computer, on- and off-campus, will use to
communicate with you through electronic mail.

Primarily for that reason, to make it easier for others both to identify you
and to remember your email address when trying to communicate with you, it is a
good idea to set your UserID to your name, including first and last names, as
described below.

1. You are strongly urged to set your UserID to your name as people know you or
as you want people to know you, first name and last, separated with periods:

Lisa.Simpson    Edgar.Allan.Poe   Lucy.van.Pelt

Some commands, such as SHOW USERS, will arrange users in order by UserID.
However, by examining the punctuation and case of the characters, they will
make a "best guess" of what the last name is, and arrange the UserIDs
appropriately.  For instance, SHOW USERS would list "Lucy.van.Pelt"
before "Edgar.Allan.Poe" because Pelt precedes Poe in alphabetic order.

If you go by several names (for example, if you have a nickname some people
use), see the discussion of "aliases" in 5 below.

2. Choose your UserID carefully.  Once you have set it, it is permanently
connected to your Forsythe account.  Changing it is not trivial -- you
must contact the Data Center's Account Services office, phone 723-4795.  If
you ever change your UserID to something new, any mail sent to your former
UserID won't reach you, unless you assign the old UserID as an alias.

3. Although your UserID can be set and will be displayed exactly as you set it,
in upper- and lowercase, the case is not significant when you or others use it.
For instance, if you set your UserID to "Lisa.Simpson", others can
issue the command "mail to lisa.simpson" and reach you successfully.

4. Rules for UserIDs:
* Your UserID can be from 4 to 32 characters in length.
* It can contain only alphabetic letters, numerals, and the period
  characters. The period is very useful for separating words.
* It must begin with a letter.
* It cannot look like a Forsythe account number, that is, two
  characters, a period, and three more characters.

5. To simplify your use of UserIDs, you can set from one to three aliases that
you can use to logon or that others can use to communicate with you.  This is a
good way to use nicknames, if you want; and it's nice to have a short alias to
use when logging on.  For example, if your UserID is William.Shakespeare, you
might want to set the aliases Bill.Shakespeare, Shakespeare or Shakey.  Others:

        UserID                  Possible aliases
        Lisa.Simpson            LisaS, LSimpson
        Edgar.Allan.Poe         EAPoe, Eddie.Poe, RavenMan
        Lucy.van.Pelt           LucyVP, Lucille.van.Pelt

If user Lisa.Simpson set LisaS as an alias, she could logon by typing "LisaS"
at the "Account?" prompt.  Other users could send messages to her either as
"Lisa.Simpson" or "LisaS".  No matter which she used to logon, mail received
from her would show her UserID, "Lisa.Simpson".

If user Edgar.Allan.Poe set Eddie.Poe as an alias, then he would be taking care
of people who might remember him by the nickname Eddie rather than Edgar when
they were mailing messages to him.

Even if you decide not to set your UserID to your full name, you might want to
make it one of your aliases.

Aliases follow the same rules as UserIDs (see 3).

6. UserIDs, aliases and names of public distribution lists must be unique on
the Forsythe computer.  For example, if you set Lisa as an alias for
Lisa.Simpson, no one else on Forsythe can use either Lisa or Lisa.Simpson as a
UserID or an alias or a public distribution list name.  UserIDs and aliases are
available on a first-come, first-served basis, so your first choice may not
always be available.

Examples of UserIDs and Aliases at Work

* UserIDs will appear on mail headers on other mail systems, on and off
campus. Here's what some mail from Forsythe looks like on another computer:

From Tom.Thumb@Forsythe.Stanford.EDU Thu Jan 16 22:31:11 1992
Received: from Forsythe.Stanford.EDU by lindy.Stanford.EDU
Date: Thu, 16 Jan 92 22:31:16 PST
To: ptbarnum@lindy
From: "Tom Thumb" <Tom.Thumb@Forsythe.Stanford.EDU>
Things are looking up from here...

* They will be used on mail headers on Forsythe:

Command> show mail
16:49 Mon 02/17/92 from Norman Roth 3-4919 <Norman.Roth>: Greetings
Hi from Campus West!...

Command> ems rm
[25927] MON 02/17/92 16:49 FROM Norman.Roth "Norman Roth 3-4919":
Greetings; 19 LINES

* You can use them on TO messages on Forsythe:

11:45 From line 103 John Klemm <John.Klemm>: Lunch?
Command> to john.klemm OK -- meet you there.

* You can use them in SHOW LINE commands:

Command> show line Karen.Zack
 621 Karen.Zack  Karen Zack    WYLBUR   Elf4-26215

* They can be used in MAIL and EMS SM commands:

Command> mail to Craig.Jurney
Command> mail to (Lynn.McRae, Lynne.Sinclair)
Command> ems sm
To? Jim.Stosick, Rich.Levitt, Chris.Lundin
cc: Jane.Marcus, Bill.Bauriedel

* They can be used to logon to Forsythe:

Account? norman.roth
Account? nmroth

* You can find someone's UserID with the WHO or SHOW USERID
command:

Command> who sack
John.Sack (also GQ.VVN)      John Sack, Data Center
Command> show userid gq.jrb
UserID: Jim.Beam  (aliases: JimB; account: GQ.JRB)

* Where You Can Use UserIDs

You can use UserIDs or aliases:

* in response to the Account? prompt at logon

* in the following WYLBUR commands:
        TO userid
        SEND userid
        MAIL TO userid
        SHOW MAIL userid
        SET MAIL userid
        SET NOMAIL userid
        SET MAIL FORWARD userid
        SHOW MSTAT userid

        SHOW LINE userid
        FINGER userid
        SHOW USERS userid
        SHOW USERID userid
        SHOW NAME userid

        PRINT TO userid
        SHOW OUTPUT userid
        SHOW JOB userid
        SHOW AUTO userid

* in the following EMS commands:
        SM TO userid, CC userid
        FIND FROM userid, TO userid

* in these directory commands:
        WHO userid
        WHOIS userid (see next column)
        PHONE userid (see next column)

* in Prism, on the Print Options screen:
       - in the field for electronic-mail addresses
       - in the Options field, with the TO option when printing to another user

Where You Cannot Use UserIDs

You cannot currently use UserIDs or aliases:

* on certain WYLBUR commands, including:
  SET ACCOUNT, SET AUTO, SET JOB, SET OUTPUT

* on the ACCOUNT option on any WYLBUR command.  For example, USE LETTER
  ACCOUNT JKLEMM will not work.  You must still use account numbers.

* in WYLBUR data set names. For example, WYL.PETER.TUTTLE.MAIL.NOTE is
  not a valid dsname.

* in Prism or SPIRES, anywhere accounts are used now, except as noted
  in the previous column.

* in JCL, where accounts are used, e.g., the JOB card.

* on ORVYL commands (such as SET PERMITS) or in ORVYL data set names.

Updating the Faculty/Staff Directory

If you are a faculty or staff member, you may want the Faculty/Staff Directory
file (from which the WHOIS database and the printed Stanford Directory are
derived) to list your UserID as your email address.  To change your listing
online, if you have a Stanford University ID and PIN, issue this command:

        PRISM // SELECT FACULTY/STAFF DIRECTORY // ENTRY

Then follow the instructions you see there. Be sure to add"@Forsythe" after the
UserID for your full address. After the SEND command to complete the
transaction, type END to leave Prism.

Summary of UserID Commands

To set your UserID:        SET USERID

To change your UserID:     call Account Services, 723-4795

To set or change your
aliases:                   SET ALIAS alias1, alias2, alias3

To see your UserID or
aliases:                   SHOW USERID

To see the UserID or
aliases for another user:  SHOW USERID account    or
                           SHOW USERID userid     or
                           WHO name

To get online help:        HELP USERIDS

