*10/31/96  Changes to WYLBUR File Handling

We have installed a new version of WINGS, the
"WYLBUR file server" program that processes file-related WYLBUR commands
such as USE, SAVE, and SHOW DSNAMES.  This version has been used by TESTWYL
for the past several weeks.

The change is transparent to clients who are using the system-managed disk
storage pool.  Likewise, clients who have private disk volumes should not be
affected if they have been following our documented data management practices.

One change that you'll notice only if you make a mistake is that the error
handling has been improved:  there is now help available for all file-related
errors (type a ? after any error to get an explanation of the error).

Uncataloged datasets are handled differently in some cases.  However, Data
Center policy is that all datasets must be cataloged, and system-managed
datasets are always cataloged, so this change should not affect anyone except
Systems staff (some system datasets cannot be cataloged).  Duplicate or
otherwise uncataloged datasets are now handled as follows:  To create an
uncataloged dataset, you must specify a volume and the NOCATALOG option.
Previously, you could specify a new volume, and WYLBUR would warn you of the
duplication but then ask if you wanted to "use it anyway?" You can still
replace or update a duplicate uncataloged dataset by giving the volume; no
other options are required.

The way that discrepancies between existing catalog entries and SAVE commands
has also been changed:

    *  If you attempt to SAVE a dataset that is cataloged but doesn't
       exist (i.e. there is a catalog entry, it points to a good volume,
       and the DSCB is not on the volume), WINGS will save the dataset
       on the cataloged volume.  This will work if you do not specify a
       volume, or if you specify the cataloged volume.

       If you specify a different volume, this a "duplicate uncataloged"
       data set described above.

2.  Catalog/recatalog/uncatalog logic:

    *  WINGS will not delete an existing catalog entry in the process of
       saving a dataset.  Actually, when "reusing" a catalog entry (as in
       the third case above), WINGS deletes the old entry and builds a new
       one, but the effect is to reuse it.  Previously, WINGS would delete
       a catalog entry that appeared to point to a bad volume, which could
       cause inadvertent recataloging of datasets.

    *  The RECATALOG option is no longer honored.  CATALOG (the default)
       and NOCATALOG are the only catalog options on the SAVE command.

    *  You must specify a volume when you SAVE...NOCATALOG.

    *  The NOCATALOG option on SCRATCH is no longer honored; the catalog entry
       for a dataset that is scratched will always be deleted.

5.  TEMP logic:  TEMP is ignored on a USE command.  A SAVE...TEMP command that
    is for a dataset already cataloged on a non-temporary volume will fail
    (errid of CATOTHER) and WYLBUR will not prompt for a "do it anyway".
