Install WINGS version 3.41 in production.  This version has been running as
TESTWING (on SYSA) for several weeks.  Highlights:

1.  The "volume/catalog conflict" logic has been extensively reworked.

    *  To create a duplicate uncataloged dataset, you must specify a
       volume and the NOCATALOG option.

    *  You can replace or update a duplicate uncataloged dataset by
       giving the volume; no other options are required.

    *  If you attempt to SAVE a dataset that is cataloged but doesn't
       exist (i.e. there is a catalog entry, it points to a good volume,
       and the DSCB is not on the volume), WINGS will save the dataset
       on the cataloged volume.  This will work if you do not specify a
       volume, or if you specify the cataloged volume.

       If you specify a different volume, this a "duplicate uncataloged"
       data set described above.

2.  Catalog/recatalog/uncatalog logic:

    *  WINGS will not delete an existing catalog entry in the process of
       saving a dataset.  Actually, when "reusing" a catalog entry (as in
       the third case above), WINGS deletes the old entry and builds a new
       one, but the effect is to reuse it.  Previously, WINGS would delete
       a catalog entry that appeared to point to a bad volume, which could
       cause inadvertent recataloging of datasets.

    *  The RECATALOG option is no longer honored.  CATALOG (the default)
       and NOCATALOG are the only catalog options on the SAVE command.

    *  You must specify a volume when you SAVE...NOCATALOG.

    *  The NOCATALOG option on SCRATCH is no longer honored; the catalog entry
       for a dataset that is scratched will always be deleted.

3.  Conversion factors for Kbytes to Tracks (for the ALLOCATE command) have
    been refined.  For space allocation purposes, a Kbyte is the amount of
    disk space required to hold 1024 bytes of data with optimum blocking.
    Therefore one 3390 track is 54.68Kbytes (two blocks of 27998 bytes).
    Likewise, 1 Mbyte is 1024 Kbytes.

4.  Error handling:  Extensive cleanup of ERRID values to be internally
    consistent,  and to be consistent with both WYLBUR and the help file
    ERRORS PUBLIC (which has also been updated).  FILESHOW (used for SHOW DSN,
    SHOW CAT) can now recover from catalog errors sometimes encountered when
    doing catalog lookup for a dataset (previously, such errors would abort
    the command).  FILESHOW also recovers from VTOC errors; previously, some
    rare errors (e.g. disk volume boxed) would cause the server to ABEND.

5.  TEMP logic:  TEMP is ignored on a USE command.  A SAVE...TEMP command that
    is for a dataset already cataloged on a non-temporary volume will fail
    (errid of CATOTHER) and WYLBUR will not prompt for a "do it anyway".

6.  When doing a SAVE into an existing dataset, check for expire date on the
    dataset and fail the command if the expire date would prevent writing.
    Previously, this generated a WTOR message.

7.  Add an option to DSNVERIFY to check for WRITE access to a dataset.

8.  Add support for CATALOG and UNCATALOG commands.
