Mike,
Here's a draft of my note on changes to WINGS dsname processing.  Since there
a couple of WYLBUR fixes required to handle all of these, I'm wondering if I
should hold off on sending it to Systems until you can fix these.  If you
think the fixes are a long way off, then I should go ahead and document what
we have.

----------------------------

There have long been discrepancies between MVS dataset naming rules and
WYLBUR/WINGS processing of dataset names.  Some of these discrepancies are
"features" in WYLBUR, but some were more accidental.  The new version of WINGS
resolves most of these discrepancies.

1.  Special characters:  MVS rules allow a hyphen or a X'C0' (left brace or
    "12-0 multipunch") wherever a numeral would be allowed in a dataset name,
    and the X'C0' in a member name.  WYLBUR has not.  New WINGS allows these
    characters in conformance with MVS rules.  See note below for an
    explanation of the X'C0' character.

2.  National Characters:  The "national characters" @#$ are treated the same
    as letters by MVS rules.  WYLBUR has used each of these for a special
    syntactic purpose:

         # to designate a member name, i.e. dsn#member
         $ as first character to show fully-qualified name
         @ as first character in the form @gg.name to show a group code
           (also as first character after "&uuu.", i.e. &uuu.@gg.dsn)

    Because all of these uses are so thoroughly embedded in WYLBUR usage, it
    is impossible to withdraw them.  However, their use is accomodated by
    allowing a dsname to be enclosed in quotes.  Within the quotes, these
    characters will be treated as letters in conformity with MVS rules.  Note
    that the use of quotes does not prevent upcasing and qualifying the name;
    for example, if GA.MCL types

         SAVE 'abc#def'

    the resulting dsname is WYL.GA.MCL.ABC#DEF.

    Current WYLBUR limitations:  WYLBUR is checking @ even with the quotes, so
    '@abc.def' is failed by WYLBUR (without invoking WINGS) as "invalid group
    code".  WYLBUR is not passing the quotes to WINGS on a SCRATCH command, so
    while you can save 'abc#def', you can't scratch it with the WYLBUR SCRATCH
    command.

3.  Member names:  MVS rules for member names are more restricted than the
    rules for simple names (parts of dsnames), and do not allow periods.  MVS
    allows only letters, numerals, national characters, and X'C0' in member
    names, with the first character a letter or national character.  WYLBUR
    has allowed virtually any character that does not confuse its command
    parsing.  For example, A.B, A-B, A?B, %%?!! are all accepted by WYLBUR.
    There are few places where MVS checks member name syntax, so we usually
    get away with this.  However, attempting to specify such a member name in
    JCL will result in a JCL error, and they may be rejected by IBM utilities.
