.cs 7 on
.item 'FTP Command' 'Updated on 10/04/99 by SLP'
.boxon
FTP [host]
.boxoff

.* DESCRIPTION
Required Privileges:  None

FTP stands for File Transfer Protocol and is the standard file transfer
method for computers on the Internet and many computers on the Iowa State
Campus Network.  FTP is usually implemented as a command that connects your
terminal session to a remote host then enables you to transfer files.

WYLBUR implements FTP in two ways:

o  The FTP command provides a facility that is similar to those found on
   other hosts.  The notes below provide more details.

o  Features of FTP are built into all WYLBUR commands that accept dataset
   names as parameters.  See the description of the "ON host" option in
   HELP DSNAME, HELP USE and HELP SAVE for details.

Notes:

1) Restrictions:  You can only use WYLBUR's FTP facility while logged in to
   WYLBUR.  Other network hosts cannot access WYLBUR via FTP.

   This means that you can transfer files to and from other network hosts but
   other network hosts cannot transfer files to and from WYLBUR.

2) User-ids and passwords:  When you enter the FTP command, you are prompted
   for your user-id and password on another computer.  You cannot transfer
   files if you do not have authorization to use the remote computer.

3) Anonymous FTP:  A large number of computers provide limited public FTP
   access.  Such access is called "anonymous FTP".  You access anonymous FTP
   servers by specifying the user-id "anonymous" at the user-id prompt and
   entering anything (usually your real user-id) for a password.

   Typically the access is provided so you can transfer files such as public
   domain software, the proceedings of discussion groups or other worthwhile
   public information.  You are allowed to get files the system manager has
   provided and are typically not allowed to place your own files on the
   server.

   A list of anonymous FTP servers is kept in the file:  ANONYMOUS.SERVERS
   which you can get with anonymous FTP from "CCVAX.IASTATE.EDU".

4) Binary Files and Word Processor Files:  Not all files contain plain text.
   Many kinds of files contain unprintable characters or are organized in
   special formats.  Examples of such files are word processing files
   containing special formatting characters, program executable images, TAR
   (Tape ARchive) files and compressed files.

   Such files are usually transferred between hosts using the FTP binary mode.
   WYLBUR does not support binary mode.  However, WYLBUR can exchange binary
   files between various hosts using an interchange format called the WYLBUR
   TRANSPARENT format.  For example, you can place FTP in TRANSPARENT mode and
   transfer a word processing file from a host on the campus network then use
   the TRANSPARENT option of the SAVE command to recreate the file on a
   computer running SAMSON.  The follow sample session illustrates this
   example:

        Command> ftp a.b.iastate.edu
        isumvs.iastate.edu Wylbur FTP (Version 1.0)
        a.b.iastate.edu username (): fred
        a.b.iastate.edu password ():
        ftp> transparent
        transparent on
        ftp> get mypaper.txt
        ftp> quit
        Command> use mypaper.txt
        Command> save c:mypaper transparent

5) FTP Help:  The FTP command has a built-in help facility that can be
   accessed by entering HELP at the ftp> prompt.

host
This specifies the host you wish to access for file transfer.  You may
specify the host name or its IP address.  For example, the Computation
Center VAXcluster could be accesssed with these equivalent commands:

FTP CCVAX.IASTATE.EDU
FTP 129.186.1.105

CCVAX.IASTATE.EDU is the name of the VAXcluster and 129.186.1.105 is its
IP number.
.cs 7 off
