DOC#EDNUM PUBLIC                           Latest update:  04/12/68
Information Technology Services            Creation date:  00/00/00
Stanford University                        Length:         97 lines


Title:  Convert Integer Variables to an Edited Print Format
        Operands

Library Program Number:  C007

Subprogram name(s):  DPR2

Summary:  This program converts integer variables to EBCDIC
(alphanumeric) characters, suppressing leading zeroes, and inserting
commas and dollars signs or asterisks, as desired.

Field of application:  Accounting, Report Formatting

Search key:  Integer-conversion, Edited-format

Languages from which this routine may be called:  FORTRAN IV (H)
                                                  (G); Assembler

Principal source language:  Assembler

Type of routine:  Standard OS/360 Subroutine
subprogram

Machine on which routine will execute:  IBM System/360

Monitor or operating system required:  OS/360

Special machine requirements:  Decimal feature

Call:  CALL EDNUM (IN,OUT,IFLG)

Parameters:

     Parameter     Type                   Description

       IN       full word integer    the number which is to be
                                     converted to EBCDIC characters

       OUT      array, at least      the output array which will
                16 bytes long        contain the EBCDIC characters
                                     in edited format

       IFLG     full word integer    a flag used to indicate which
                                     edited format is desired (see
                                     USE below)

Declarations:  None

Special system control cards needed:  None

Use:  This subroutine sets up integer variables for printing.  The
format into which the number is edited is indicated by the value of
IFLG, an integer variable which is passed to the subroutine through
the argument list.  For all values of IFLG, leading zeros are
suppressed.  The minus sign is inserted at the right end of all
negative numbers.

The EBCDIC characters set up for printing will be returned in OUT,
an array which should be at least 16 bytes long.  The two left-most
bytes will always be blanks.

Accuracy:  Not applicable

Time:  Approximately .1 millisecond

Non-library routines or subroutines required:  None

Library routines or subroutines required:  None

Library routines required:  None

Storage requirements:  304 bytes

Registers used:  Registers 14 and 15 are used for linkage; all
                 other registers are restored.

Program description:  This program uses only the general purpose
registers; the floating-point registers are not disturbed in any
way.  The full 20 hex digit product is truncated to 14 hex digits
following post normalization.

References:  None

Programmer:  Marion Moore
             User Services Group
             Stanford Computation Center Campus Facility

Certified by:  Dustin Farnum
               User Services Group
               Stanford Computation Center Campus Facility

Date:  April 12, 1968
