           DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ON THE PRIVACY AND SECURITY
              OF ELECTRONIC MAIL ON THE FORSYTHE SYSTEM

The Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 is a federal law
which among other things defines electronic communication and the
responsibilities of electronic communication providers.  Electronic
mail is an example of the kind of system which falls under this law.
In keeping with Stanford University Guidelines for the Protection of
Electronic Mail (Memo from Robert L. Street to Computer Systems
Managers dated February 5, 1992) this disclosure statement is
provided for users of the EMS and Wylbur Email facilities on the
Forsythe system.  For a copy of the above mentioned memo, send your
request to Bill.Bauriedel@Forsythe.

For information about using EMS and Wylbur mail on the Forsythe system
you should read the document titled "Using Electronic Mail on the
Forsythe Computer" which may be obtained by typing the PUBLISH
command in Wylbur.

The following common questions are answered in light of the above law.

 - How secure is a message in EMS or Wylbur mail?

   The level of privacy and security provided by EMS and Wylbur mail
   is similar to that of an interoffice memo; that is, it should not
   be considered to be completely secure.  The recommended guide-
   line is: if you would not put the message into the interoffice
   Stanford campus mail system, then you should not send it via EMS
   or Wylbur mail.

 - What is the maximum time after a message has been deleted that it
   is still available on a backup tape?

   For Wylbur mail, the length of time depends on a) when the
   message was received and deleted, b) when the backup was taken,
   and c) the retention period of the particular backup file
   (retention periods vary by date within the month).  If Wylbur
   mail is deleted on the same day it is received, it is not backed
   up.  If it remains on the system overnight, it may be backed up
   for as long as seven months.

   EMS messages are sent via WYLBUR MAIL.  When you do RM or RMS,
   the messages are removed from your WYLBUR mailbox and placed in
   the EMS system.  Therefore, if you receive a message and do not
   do RM or RMS until the next day, a copy of it may exist on the
   WYLBUR backup tapes as described above, in addition to the EMS
   copies.

   Within EMS, a deleted message may be available for as long as three
   months.  All deleted EMS messages will be kept for a minimum of
   13 days on backup tapes.  From 13 days to three months, the
   conditions under which particular messages are available or not
   is similar to the Wylbur mail backup conditions.

 - Can EMS or Wylbur mail messages be obtained by outside parties
   through the use of the subpoena process?

   A court might hold that files in EMS or Wylbur mail are discover-
   able to the same extend that other University files are discover-
   able.  That is, the mere fact that the files are maintained in an
   electronic medium does not affect whether they are or are not
   discoverable.  The same privileges that extend to paper files (for
   example, lawyer-client) should be applicable to EMS and Wylbur
   files; when no privilege applies (as is the case with most Stanford
   files), discovery is possible.  Please contact the General Counsel
   office for specific information.

 - What is the security of printed matter that is to be delivered?

   Output is delivered, unsealed, by Stanford Campus Mail couriers
   and is therefore as secure as Stanford Campus Mail.

   An alternative is to direct your printed matter to a local printer
   under your control.

 - What are the procedures by which someone can obtain the password
   to an account through the Stanford Data Center?

   Whenever a password is forgotten the normal procedure is to
   obtain a new password by either going in person to Account
   Services office or by calling them at 723-4795.  For every SDC
   account, there is a sponsor (the person authorized to expend
   monies for the University account to which the SDC account is
   charged) and a user (the individual who actually uses the
   account).  Frequently, the user and the sponsor are the same
   person.  Either person is authorized to request a password
   change.  Alternatively, some administrative areas have a group
   administrator who can perform various group level functions
   including password functions for members of the group.  In all
   cases, proper identification and authority must be presented
   before the password is changed.

 - To what extent are SDC staff given access to information stored
   in EMS or Wylbur mail files?

   Certain selected individuals are given access privileges to EMS
   files for purposes of overall system maintenance.  Normally,
   access to individual files is unnecessary.  If, under some
   conditions, access is required, the SDC staff member is required
   not to take notice of the specific contents of the mail and is
   required to inform the owner of the information that an access
   has occurred.  It is the responsibility of SDC to ensure that
   there is no frivolous use of these access privileges.
