OPTIONS: UNN INDENT=6 CHARS=CU10
Stanford Data Center                        Last update:    10/04/93
Stanford University                         Length:        149 lines

WYLBUR FAX SERVICE

This note describes a new Wylbur online fax service that is now
available for testing.

A new Wylbur FAX command allows Wylbur data to be converted into
page images and transmitted to a fax machine.  Sending a fax is like
printing, except that the output device is a fax machine rather than
a printer.  The FAX command has the same syntax as the PRINT
command, with a couple of added options:

    FAX TO <phone-number>
        [AUTH auth-code]
        [RECIPIENT 'recipient name for fax cover page']
        [SENDER 'sender info for cover page']
        [SUBJECT 'info text for cover page']
        [standard print options]

The fax number can be any phone number or dialing sequence that will
be accepted by the Stanford phone system.  For example,

    FAX TO 3-1234
    FAX TO 723-1234
    FAX TO 1-408-123-4567

You should specify the same sequence of digits that you would use if
you dialed the number yourself from a campus phone, except that you
don't need to specify the '9' prefix digit for off-campus numbers.
The '9' will be added automatically by the system.  The '-'
character in the phone number is optional and will be ignored when
dialing the number.

You will need to provide long-distance authorization code if the
phone number is outside of the local Stanford calling area.  Wylbur
will prompt you for an authorization code if it is needed to send
your fax.  You can also specify the authorization code directly on
the FAX command using the AUTH option.  Calling card numbers cannot
be used for fax transmissions.  The Stanford Phone Directory
provides information on what phone numbers require an authorization
code.

The system will send a cover page with your fax.  You can use the
optional SENDER and RECIPIENT options on the FAX command to specify
information for the 'From:' and 'To:' areas of the cover page.  You
should specify the RECIPIENT information so that your fax will be
routed correctly at the receiving location.  The SUBJECT option
specifies additional text that will appear on the cover page.  If
you don't specify any of these options the system will send a simple
cover page giving your name and the current time and date.  The fax
cover page can be suppressed by using the NOSEP option.

You can use the SET FAX command to specify more complete sender
information that will be automatically placed on the cover page when
you send a fax.  For example, you could put something like the
following command in your #LOGON file (all on one line):

  set fax sender='Winfield Wombat;Polya Hall 2001;
   Stanford CA, 94305; Phone: (415) 723-4567;Fax: (415) 723-1234'

This specifies the default sender information that will be placed in
the 'From:' area of the cover page when you send a fax.  The ';' is
treated as a line delimiter.  The text in the example above will be
displayed on the fax cover page as 5 separate lines.

Multiple lines lines of text delimited by ';' can also be specified
for the RECIPIENT and SUBJECT options.  Up to 128 characters of text
can be specified for each option.

Other FAX command option defaults can be set using the SET FAX
command.  You can use the SHOW FAX command to display your SET FAX
options.

Internally the FAX command works just like a PRINT command, and all
of the standard PRINT command formatting options can be used to
control the format of the transmitted fax text.  This includes
options like UNN, INDENT, MARKER, CC, CHARS, FLASH, LANDSCAPE,
POSTSCRIPT, etc.  For example, you can issue a command like

   FAX TO 723-1234 UNN CC LANDSCAPE CHARS=CU12

If you don't specify any PRINT formatting options the system will set
a default of 'UNN INDENT=6'.

Faxes are formatted using a scalable Courier-style fixed-pitch font.
You can specify CHARS=CUnn to specify the pitch of the font.  If
don't specify a CHARS option then the system will set a default based
on the maximum line length of your text.  Currently there is no
distinction between regular and bold text in a fax, so that so you
will get the same font whether you specify CUnn or BDnn as a CHARS
option.

If you specify COPIES it will be ignored; only 1 copy of the fax will
be transmitted.

You can use the BLOCK option to specify deferred transmission of your
fax.  For example, 'fax ... block=evening' will cause the system to
queue your file until the start of the evening time block before
trying to transmit it.

The fax service includes a forms flash capability.  This feature can
be used to generate letterheads or preprinted forms on a fax.

The fax system uses the Postscript page description language
internally.  Sending a fax is like printing to an Apple LaserWriter
or other Postscript printer.  The fax system can process uploaded
Macintosh or PC Postscript files.  To send a Postscript language
file, specify the POSTSCRIPT option on the FAX command.  There may
be some formatting inconsistencies because the fax processing uses a
set of public domain fonts rather than the Adobe fonts.  Some of the
character widths will not be consistent with the Adobe fonts in
Postscript printers.


Most of the actual processing of the fax is done on Lindy, a Sun
computer running Unix.  When you issue the FAX command Wylbur
initially puts your fax data in the system output queue.  The output
is then converted to Postscript form (unless it is already a
Postscript file) and transmitted over SUNet to Lindy.  On Lindy the
Postscript file is converted into bitmap page images and then queued
for transmission.  A fax modem connected to Lindy is then used to
dial the remote fax machine and transmit the page images.

Normally the initial attempt to transmit your fax will occur within a
few minutes of the time you issue the FAX command.  Lindy will send
you a mail message indicating whether or not the transmission
succeeded.  If the transmission fails (for example, because the phone
number is busy or is not answering), Lindy will keep the fax in its
queue and retry the transmission three more times at 30 minute
intervals before giving up.  You will get a mail message after each
attempt to transmit the fax.

The fax processing on Lindy is performed by these public domain
programs:

  netfax      - by Henry Minsky and David M. Siegel of MIT
  ghostscript - by L. Peter Deutsch of Aladdin Enterprises

The netfax program controls the overall fax processing, and calls the
other programs as needed.  Netfax manages the fax queue on Lindy,
schedules fax transmissions, and controls the operation of the fax
modem.  Ghostscript is a Postscript language interpreter that reads
a Postscript file and produces the compressed fax format page image
bitmaps that are transmitted to fax machines.

Send any comments or problem reports to Jim Stosick (gg.jws@forsythe).
