DOC#INTRP1 PUBLIC                          Latest update:  08/01/67
Information Technology Services            Creation date:  00/00/00
Stanford University                        Length:        119 lines


Title:  Newton's Forward and Backward Interpolation for Equally
        Spaced Points

Library Program Number:  C016

Subprogram name(s):  INTRP1

Summary:  Given a table of values of a function F(x) at a set of
equally spaced values of x, this procedure uses Newton's
Forward and Backward Interpolation formulas to determine the value
of F(x) for any value of x in the allowable range.  (See LLABEL in
parameter list.)

Field of application:  Mathematics

Search key:  Newtons, Forward, Backward, Interpolation

Languages from which this routine may be called:  FORTRAN IV;
                                                  Assembler; OS/360

Principal source language:  OS/360 FORTRAN IV (H)

Type of routine:  Standard OS/360 FORTRAN IV (H) subroutine
subprogram

Machine on which routine will execute:  IBM System/360

Monitor or operating system required:  OS/360

Special machine requirements:  None

Call:  CALL INTRP1 (X0, XF, H,Y,X,BETA, EPSLIN, M, INW, &LLABEL)

Parameters:

     Parameter     Type                   Description

       X0       real variable        the initial value of the
                short precision      independent variable x

      XF        real variable        the final value of the
                short precision      independent variable x

       H        real variable        the x increment
                short precision

       Y        real array           a one-dimensional array
                short precision      containing the known values of
                                     the dependent variable.
                                     Y[I] = F(X0 + I X H).
                                     (Minimum array bound = 1.)

       X        real variable        the value of the independent
                short precision      variable for which the
                                     interpolation takes place

    BETA        logical variance     if TRUE - uses Backward formula
                short precision      if FALSE - uses Forward formula

   EPSLN        real variable        a tolerance parameter.  If the
                short precision      I-th difference is EPSLIN in
                                     absolute value, no more
                                     differences are computed.

       M        full word integer    the maximum number of
                                     differences to be taken

     INW        real variable        the interpolated value, F(X)
                short precision

 &LLABEL        statement number     a statement number is
                                     transferred if X is outside the
                                     the allowable range which is
                                     [X0 - 2H, XF + 2H).

Declarations:  None

Special system control cards needed:  None

Use:  See Summary

Other input:  None

Other output:  None

Error conditions and messages:  Condition:  X out the allowable
                                  range which is (X0 - 2H, x) + 2H)
                                Action:  Control transfers to
                                  statement number passed as
                                  parameter &LLABEL

Non-library routines or subroutines required:  None

Library routines required:  None

Storage requirements:     4  bytes
                       173
                          10
                           16      10

Registers used:  Standard OS/360 FORTRAN IV (H) calling sequence

References:  Burroughs Corp. Mathematical Report Series, MRS-110
             [2]  Raltson, "A First Course in Numerical Analysis,"
                  McGraw-Hill, 1965, p.54.

Caution:  The one-dimensional array Y, containing the known values of
          the function, gets changed by the procedure.

Programmer:  Jim Wells

Certified by:  Karen Murata

Date:  August 1, 1967
