DOC#JCLSCAN PUBLIC                       Latest update:  12/13/85
Information Technology Services          Creation date:  09/09/78
Stanford University                      Length:         59 lines

This file briefly describes an interactive program that may be
invoked to scan Job Control Language statements for syntax errors.

JCLSCAN is an interactive program that searches for syntax errors in
the job control statements for programs to be submitted for batch
processing.  All records other than JCL and HASP control statements
are ignored during JCLSCAN processing.  The scanner operates as a
public program under ORVYL/370.  You put your job into the WYLBUR
active file then when JCL syntax errors are encountered, JCLSCAN
allows you to use the full WYLBUR editing capabilities to make
corrections.

The scanner does not expand cataloged procedures, and so will not
detect some errors (invalid symbolic parameters, etc.).  See the
section below.

To use the scanner, type

     CALL JCLSCAN

in response to the COMMAND?  prompt.  JCLSCAN issues an identifying
message and prompts you with a dash followed by a question mark.
This prompt is used throughout JCLSCAN processing to indicate
JCLSCAN command level.  If your JCL to be scanned is not already in
your active file, you may enter JCL statements with the WYLBUR
COLLECT command or employ the USE command to bring the contents of a
data set into the active file.

To begin the scan, type:

     SCAN [range] [NOWARN]

The option "range" is a single WYLBUR line number or describes a
group of lines.  If no range is specified, each line in the active
file is examined for control statements and valid options.

The NOWARN option will suppress the warning messages that indicate
certain  items that may be missing on DD statements. Syntax errors
will still be flagged.

JCLSCAN scans and notes errors in the SCAN range one line at a time.
When an error is found, the scanner prints the statement in which it
occurred and prints a vertical bar (|) beneath the last correct
element in the statement.

After determining that the line is syntactically correct, the
scanner will issue certain warnings about DD statements that don't
have all the information usually required, or more information than
there should be.  These warnings should be taken into consideration,
but in many cases the JCL is correct as it is.

JCLSCAN will only spot one error at a time so you may want to SCAN a
line again after you have corrected an error.  If the SCAN command
returns only a JCLSCAN prompt, no errors have been detected.  The
EXIT command returns control to WYLBUR.
