DOC#LAGRN1 PUBLIC                          Latest update:  08/01/67
Information Technology Services            Creation date:  00/00/00
Stanford University                        Length:         84 lines


Title:  Lagrange Interpolation

Library Program Number:  C019

Subprogram name(s):  LAGRN1

Summary:  This procedure evaluates, at a single abscissa, an N-th
degree Lagrange polynomial passing through N+1 points.

Field of application:  Mathematics

Search key:  Lagrange Interpolation

Languages from which this routine may be called:  FORTRAN IV;
                                                  Assembler; OS/360

Principal source language:  OS/360 FORTRAN IV (H)

Type of routine:  Standard OS/360 FORTRAN IV (H) subroutine
subprogram

Machine on which routine will execute:  IBM System/360

Monitor or operating system required:  OS/360

Special machine requirements:  None

Call:  CALL LAGRN1 (N, U, X, Y, ANS)

Parameters:

     Parameter     Type                   Description

       N        full word integer    degree of polynomial to be
                                     evaluated

       U        real variable        abscissa where interpolation is
                short precision      desired

       X        real variable        abscissas of N+1 points through
                short precision      which the polynomial passes

       Y        real array           ordinates of N+1 points through
                short precision      which the polynomial passes

       ANS      real variable        value of the polynomial at U
                short precision

Declarations:  None

Special system control cards needed:  None

Use:  This procedure evaluates at U an N-th degree Lagrange
polynomial passing through the N+1 points and stores the result in
ANS.

Error conditions and messages:  None

Time:  Time required is proportional to N to the second power.

Non-library routines or subroutines required:  None

Library routines or subroutines required:  None

Storage requirements:  556 bytes

Registers used:  Standard FORTRAN program

References:  (1)  R. W. Hamming, "Numerical Methods for Scientists
                  and Engineers" (McGraw-Hill, 1962), pp. 94-95.
             (2)  George R. Schubert, 'Lagrangian Interpolation,'
                  "Communications of the ACM," (Vol. 7, No. 10,
                  October, 1963), p. 616.

Programmer:  Jim Wells

Certified by:  Karen Murata

Date:  August 1, 1967
