DOC#LINPACK PUBLIC                         Latest update:  01/01/85
Information Technology Services            Creation date:  00/00/00
Stanford University                        Length:         59 lines


                           Using LINPACK

LINPACK, a package to solve systems of linear equations in numerical
analysis, is available to I.T.S. users.  This collection of
subroutines helps solve systems of linear equations, factor
matrices, find matrix condition numbers, compute determinants,
invert matrices; and resolves linear least square problems and
singular value decompositions.

Descriptions of the subroutines available and the algorithms
involved are given in the "LINPACK Users' Guide."  Copies are
available in the Consulting Office and the study rack area in
Forsythe Hall.

To purchase a copy of the guide, write SIAM, 33 South 17th Street,
Philadelphia, PA  19103.

There are a variety of routines designed to efficiently handle
matrices with particular structure (i.e., band matrices, positive
definite matrices, etc.) as well as routines for general matrices in
LINPACK.  If you need help in determining the appropriate routines
to use, see the Numerical Analysis consultant.  Also, various driver
subroutines which make the interface for some of the LINPACK
routines easier for the user are available:

   DGBFCS for solving real banded systems of linear equations.

   DGEFCS for solving dense nonsymmetric real systems of linear
   equations.

   DGEFDI for finding the determinants and inverses of dense
   nonsymmetric real matrices.

   DPPFCS for solving dense positive-definite real systems of linear
   equations.

   DPBFCS for solving dense positive-definite real banded systems of
   linear equations.

   DSPFCS for solving dense symmetric real systems of linear
   equations.

   DSVDDR for reducing a matrix to diagonal form by orthogonal
   transformation.

   ZGEFCS for solving dense nonsymmetric complex systems of linear
   equations.

The documentation for each of these drivers is in their source code.
Each of the LINPACK routines also has inline documentation
describing its parameters and usage.

The "LINPACK Users' Guide" routines are maintained only in double
precision.  Double precision routines have the same name as the
single precision routines except the initial S or C in the single
precision routine name is changed to D or Z respectively for the
double precision name.  For example, the single precision routine
SGECO, documented in the "LINPACK Users' Guide," is DGECO in the
double precision I.T.S. libraries; single precision CGECO becomes
ZGECO in double precision.

In order to avoid duplication, calls to the BLAS (Basic Linear
Algebra Routines) at I.T.S. are resolved from the IMSL Libraries
rather than from the set supplied with LINPACK.  The routines should
produce identical results.
