This document is meant to be printed on the Xerox 9700 printer in
Forsythe Hall rather than read online.  However, if you are looking
for specific information, reading a few lines on the screen may be
satisfactory.  Printing on other than the Xerox 9700 printer may
require adjustments to the PRINT command.  You may need to delete
the OPTIONS: line and add options suitable for your printer.  To
print from the Xerox 9700, type the PRINT 1/LAST command.
options: unn cc chars=cu12 forms=3hol duplex
1              DOC#LISREL PUB                           Latest update:  12/13/84
               Information Technology Services          Creation date:  12/13/84
               Stanford University                      Lines:              1724






                      SPSS-X UPDATE DOCUMENTATION                               PAGE   1
0
                                                       XX      XX
                                                        XX    XX
                                                         XX  XX
                                                          XXXX
                 SSSSSSS  PPPPPPPP   SSSSSSS   SSSSSSS     XX
                SSSSSSSSS PPSPPPPPP SSSSSSSSS SSSSSSSSS   XXXX
                SS     SS PP     PP SS     SS SS     SS  XX  XX
                SS        PP     PP SS        SS        XX    XX
                SSSSSSSS  PPPPPPPPP SSSSSSSS  SSSSSSSS XX      XX
                 SSSSSSSS PPPPPPPP   SSSSSSSS  SSSSSSSS
                       SS PP               SS        SS
                SS     SS PP        SS     SS SS     SS
                SSSSSSSSS PP        SSSSSSSSS SSSSSSSSS
                 SSSSSSS  PP         SSSSSSS   SSSSSSS




                INFO COMMAND


                                             13 DEC 84



                This documentation may be reproduced by licensees of the
                SPSS-X system for local distribution via the INFO command
                in SPSS-X or other printing utilities regularly used for
                documentation at the licensed installation.  Other use
                without the prior permission of SPSS Inc. is not authorized.

                Copyright 1983 by SPSS Inc.
                All rights reserved.
                Property of SPSS Inc.


                If there is no update information for the requested procedures and
                release numbers, nothing will be printed.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE   2
0
                USERPROC NAME=LISREL


                1 OVERVIEW
                2 OPERATION
                    3 Specifications for Control Cards which Read Data
                        4 Formatted reading
                        5 Free-format reading
                    6 LISREL Title Card(s)
                    7 The DA (data parameters) Control Card
                    8 Control Cards for Raw Input Data
                        9 The NA (names) control card
                        10 The RA (raw data) control card
                    11 Control Cards for Matrix Input Data
                        12 Moment, covariance, and correlation matrices
                        13 Means and standard deviations
                    14 LA Control Card to Label Observed Variables
                    15 The SE (select variables) Control Card
                    16 Control Cards Specifying Model to be Estimated
                        17 The MO (model parameters) control card
                        18 Cards to free, fix, and equate parameter values
                        19 Cards to set individual parameter values
                    20 Cards to Label Latent Variables
                    21 The PL (plot) Control Card
                    22 The OU (output parameters) Control Card
                        23 Specifications which control estimation method
                        24 Saving a matrix to a file
                        25 Input and output format specifications
                        26 Specifications for optional printout
                        27 Specifications for automatic model modification
                28 USING LISREL IN SPSS-X
                    29 Peculiarities of LISREL Command Language for SPSS-X Users
                    30 Differences between SPSS-X and Stand-Alone LISREL
                        31 Raw data input
                        32 Missing value treatments
                        33 Unknown number of observations
                        34 Raw data for multiple group analyses
                    35 Matrix Input Data
                        36 Matrices created by SPSS-X procedures
                        37 Procedures require an active file
                    38 Efficiency and Operating Considerations
                    39 LISREL under IBM OS
                40 LIMITATIONS
                41 LISREL EXAMPLES
                    42 Example 1: Factor a published correlation matrix
                    43 Example 2: Analyze an SPSS-X procedure output matrix
                    44 Example 3: An econometric model with SPSS-X variables
                45 LISREL SUPPORT
                    46 LISREL Documentation




                   USERPROC NAME=LISREL

                   title card(s)
                   a DA (data parameters) control card (specifies data to be used)
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE   3
0
                   control cards for raw input data
                                    - or -
                   control cards for matrix input data
                   LA control card to label observed variables
                   SE control card to identify variables in analysis
                   control cards specifying the model to estimate (MO must be first)
                   control cards to label latent variables
                   a PL (plot) control card (plots fitting function against parameter)
                   an OU (output parameters) card (specifies output and algorithm controls)
                   END USER

                   USERPROC NAME=LISREL

                   title card(s)
                   title

                   a DA (data parameters) control card (specifies data to be used)
                   DAtaparameters NGroups=¬1­  NInputvars=¬n­  NObs=¬100­ MAtrix=¬CM­
                                          ¬n­                       ¬ n ­        ¬KM­
                                                                    ¬ 0 ­        ¬MM­
                                                                                 ¬AM­

                   control cards for raw input data (unique to SPSS-X implementation)
                   NAmes [UNit=¬5­]  [REwind] [BAckspace]
                                  ¬n­
                      varlist card(s)
                      RAwdata  [MValues=¬0­] [MTreat=¬LI   ­] [PP] [PT]
                                        ¬n­          ¬PA   ­
                                                     ¬LI,IN­
                                                     ¬PA,IN­


                   control cards for matrix input data

                      ¬CMatrix-of-covariances ­  [¬SYmm­] [UNit=¬5­] [FOrmat] [REwind] BAckspace
                      ¬KMatrix-of-correlations­  [¬FUll­]       ¬n­
                      ¬MMatrix-of-moments     ­
                       [¬*                      ­]
                        ¬(   FORTRAN formats   )­
                            [  data cards  ]

                      [¬MEans­ [UNit=¬5­] [FOrmat-unit-5] [REwind] [BAckspace] ]
                       ¬SDevs­       ¬n­
                       [¬*                      ­]
                        ¬(   FORTRAN formats   )­
                            [  data cards  ]
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE   4
0
                   LA control card to label observed variables

                      ¬LAbels­ [UNit=¬5­] [FOrmat-unit-5] [REwind] [BAckspace] ]
                                     ¬n­
                       [¬*                      ­]
                        ¬(   FORTRAN formats   )­
                           [ varname card(s) ]

                   SE control card to identify variables in analysis
                      ¬SElect-variables­ [UNit=¬5­]
                                               ¬n­
                      [ y-variable names or numbers x-variable names or numbers ]
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE   5
0
                   control cards specifying the model to estimate

                      MOdelparameters [NYvar=n] [NXvar=n] [NEta=n] [NKsi=n] C

                                      [parameter matrix=¬ZE­,¬FI­] [parameter matrix= . . . ]
                                                        ¬ID­ ¬FR­
                                                        ¬IZ­
                                                        ¬ZI­
                                                        ¬DI­
                                                        ¬SD­
                                                        ¬SY­
                                                        ¬ST­

                      ¬FRee ­  parameter matrix(row,column) [parameter matrix(row,column) ...]
                      ¬FIx  ­
                      ¬NFree­
                      ¬EQual­

                      ¬PAttern­ parameter matrix [UNit=¬5­]
                       [¬*                      ­]
                        ¬(   FORTRAN formats   )­
                            [ values [/] ]

                      VAlue value  parameter matrix(row,column) parameter matrix(row,column) ...
                      STart

                      MAtrix  ­parameter matrix  UNit= 5 ­] FOrmat-on-5 ] REwind ] BAck space]
                       [¬*                      ­]
                        ¬(   FORTRAN formats   )­
                            [ values [/] ]
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE   6
0
                   control cards to label latent variables

                      ¬LKsi  ­ [UNit=¬5­] [FOrmat-unit-5] [REwind] [BAckspace] ]
                      ¬LEta  ­       ¬n­
                       [¬*                      ­]
                        ¬(   FORTRAN formats   )­
                           [ varname card(s) ]
                   PL control card to plot fitting function against parameter values
                      ¬PLot­  parameter matrix(row,column) [parameter matrix(row,column) ...]

                   OUtputparameters control card: specifying output and algorithm controls

                      OUtputparameters [¬ML­] [NS] [parameter matrix=n] [TM=¬60­]  C
                                        ¬IV­                                ¬n ­
                                        ¬TS or IO­
                                        ¬UL­
                                        ¬GL­
                                       [MF=¬3­] [AM] [SL=¬1­] [TO] [ND=¬3­]  C
                                           ¬n­           ¬n­           ¬n­
                                       [PT] [SE] [TV] [PC]             C
                                       [RS] [EF] [FD] [SS]  [AL]
                   END USER


                   admissible values for parameter matrix and default form and mode
                   parameter matrix        default form    default mode  dimensions
                   LY  (LAMBDA-y)               FU              FI         NY x NE
                   LX  (LAMBDA-x)               FU              FI         NX x NK
                   BE  (BETA)                   ZE              FI         NE x NE
                   GA  (GAMMA)                  FU              FR         NE x NK
                   PH  (PHI)                    SY              FR         NK x NK
                   PS  (PSI)                    SY              FR         NE x NE
                   TE  (THETA[epsilon])         DI              FR         NX x NX
                   TD  (THETA[delta])           DI              FR         NY x NY

                LISREL VI analyzes a variety of linear structural relation
                models. It is the latest in the series of LISREL programs and
                includes many improvements and enhancements to previous versions.
                These include improved initial estimates, labels for latent
                variables, reduced computing times, and added methods of obtaining
                parameter estimates.

                    Workers in sociology, psychology, marketing, econometrics,
                education, and other fields use structural models to represent
                relations among observed variables. You can use LISREL to

                * fit causal path models in social survey data.

                * estimate econometric simultaneous equation models, having
                  variables measured with or without error.

                * study time-dependent relations in longtitudinal data.

                * perform confirmatory factor analysis and covariance structure
                  analysis.

                * estimate variance components in unbalanced or irregular data
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE   7
0
                  structures such as families, kindreds, or other social groups.

                * analyze multivariate panel data.

                * test the equality of covariance or correlation matrices,
                  regressions or factor patterns for two or more groups.

                * perform standard multivariate techniques such as principal
                  components and canonical correlation analyses.

                You can estimate these models and more using the LISREL USERPROC
                in SPSS-X.

                    Because SPSS-X implements LISREL as an USERPROC, the procedure
                uses exactly the same control cards as the stand-alone version of
                the program.  The user's manual, LISREL V and LISREL VI: Analysis
                of Linear Structural Relationships by Maximum Likelihood and Least
                Square Methods, documents these instructions and includes many
                examples.  A LISREL VI manual will be available from International
                Educational Services in 1984. The SPSS-X version of LISREL adds
                control cards and parameters to allow you to use SPSS-X variables
                and missing values. Most existing LISREL programs should run with
                little or no modification.

                    This chapter is not a substitute for the LISREL manual.  It
                includes only information necessary to use LISREL effectively from
                within SPSS-X. Included are differences between SPSS-X LISREL and
                stand-alone LISREL, how to pass data from SPSS-X files and
                procedure output files to LISREL, and hints on effective
                operation.  The final section discusses LISREL support and
                documentation.  This chapter also includes a summary reference of
                LISREL control cards.  Because LISREL documentation describes
                control cards and parameters, rather than commands and
                subcommands, this chapter retains these terms.


                1  OVERVIEW

                The LISREL model assigns latent variables to two sets, m dependent
                eta-variables and n independent xi-variables.  A structural
                equation model predicts eta-variables from eta- and xi- variables
                with coefficient matrices BETA and GAMMA and residual values zeta.

                        eta = BETA eta  +  GAMMA xi  +  zeta


                    Measurement models relate the p observed dependent y-variables
                and q independent x-variables to the m latent eta- and n latent
                xi-variables.  The measurement model for the observed dependent y-
                variables is:

                        y = LAMBDA[y] eta  +  epsilon

                and that for the observed independent x-variables is:

                        x = LAMBDA[x] xi  +  delta
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE   8
0
                    PHI is the matrix of covariances of the latent independent xi-
                variables.  PSI, THETA[epsilon], and THETA[delta] are the
                covariance matrices of the zeta, epsilon, and delta residual or
                error terms.  Hence PSI is the matrix of covariances of the
                residuals of the latent dependent variables.  The THETA matrices
                contain the error variances and covariances for observed
                variables.

                   Notation for number of variables
                   number of:              mathematical     LISREL
                   observed dependent   y-variables       p            NY
                   observed independent x-variables       q            NX
                   latent dependent     eta-variables     m            NE
                   latent independent   xi-variables      n            NK
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE   9
0
                   LISREL parameter matrices
                   LISREL parameter
                   matrix in model    default
                   name  ( size )   form,mode        matrix description
                   LY  LAMBDA[y]     FU,FI   regressions of observed x
                         (p x m)               on latent xi variables
                   LX  LAMBDA[x]     FU,FI   regressions of observed y
                         (q x n)               on latent eta variables
                   BE  BETA          ZE,FI   effects of latent dependent variables(eta)
                         (m x m)               on other eta variables
                   GA  GAMMA         FU,FR   effects of latent independent variables(xi)
                         (m x n)               on latent dependent variables (eta)
                   PH  PHI           SY,FR   covariances of latent independent
                         (n x n)               variables (xi)
                   PS  PSI           SY,FR   covariances of latent dependent
                         (m x m)               variable residuals (zeta)
                   TE  THETA[delta]  DI,FR   variances and covariances of
                         (p x p)               x-residuals (delta)
                   TD  THETA[epsilon]DI,FR   variances and covariances of
                         (q x q)               y-residuals (epsilon)

                   where forms of    FU  a rectangular or square non-symmetric matrix
                   a matrix are:

                                     SY  a symmetric, non-diagonal matrix
                                     ZE  a zero matrix
                                     DI  a diagonal matrix
                                     ID  an identity matrix
                                     IZ  a partitioned matrix containing an identity matrix
                                         and a zero matrix   [I 0]
                                     ZI  a partitioned matrix containing a zero matrix and
                                         an identity matrix  [0 I]
                                     SD  a subdiagonal matrix, a lower triangular matrix
                                         with diagonal elements equal to 0 (BETA only)
                                     ST  a symmetric matrix with fixed ones in the
                                         diagonal (e.g.  a correlation matrix)
                   and modes are:    FI  values are fixed
                                     FR  values are free

                You specify models by identifying the number of x, y, eta
                and xi variables on the MO control card. If you indicate no
                variables of a given type, LISREL estimates a submodel involving
                only some of the parameter matrices. You then fix the values of
                some parameters, and use LISREL to estimate the values of the
                remaining free parameters. Sets of free parameters can be
                constrained to be equal in value.  The LISREL V and LISREL VI
                user's guide discusses these models and specifications in detail
                and includes many examples.

                Title output.  Use the title control card(s) to add a descriptive
                header to each page of LISREL output. You must include a title
                card (see Section 6).

                Specify data to be used.  The DA (data parameters) control card
                specifies the data to be used by LISREL. You must include a DA
                control card (see Section 7).
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  10
0
                Raw data input.  Use the NA (names) and RA (raw data) control
                cards to input raw data.  The syntax of these control cards is
                unique to SPSS-X LISREL (see Section 8).

                Matrix data input.  Use the CM (covariance matrix), KM
                (correlation matrix), MM (moment matrix), ME (means vector),
                and/or SD (standard deviation vector) control cards to input data
                in matrix form (see Section 11).

                Label observed variables.  Use the LA (labels) control card to
                label observed variables (see Section 14).

                Select independent and dependent variables.  Use the SE (select
                variables) control card to identify the observed independent and
                dependent variables (see Section 15).



                Specify the model to estimate.  You must include a MO (model
                parameters) control card.  The MO card must precede the other
                control cards used to specify a model. Use the control cards FR
                (free), FI (fix), NF (never free), EQ (equal), and PA (pattern) to
                fix, free, or equate values in the LISREL model. Use the control
                cards VA (value), ST (start), and MA (matrix of values) to
                initialize values in the model. See Section 16.

                Label latent variables.  Use the LK (label xi) and LE (label eta)
                control cards to label latent variables (see Section 20).

                Optional plotted output.  Use the PL (plot) control card to plot
                the fitting function against parameter values (see Section 21).

                Specify type of estimates and algorithm controls.  Use the OU
                (output parameters) control card to specify the estimation method
                (e.g. two-stage least squares or maximum likelihood).  You can
                also request automatic model modification on the OU control card.
                You must include an OU control card. The OU card must be the last
                control card for each group (see Section 22).

                Printed output.  For every analysis, LISREL prints your title and
                a parameter listing, the matrix to be analyzed, parameter
                specifications, initial and final (ULS, GLS, or ML) parameter
                estimates, and overall goodness-of-fit measures (UL, GL, and ML
                only).  You can request additional procedure output on the LISREL
                OU control card (see Section 26).


                2  OPERATION

                SPSS-X implements LISREL VI  as a USERPROC.  You can invoke the
                LISREL procedure by specifying LISREL on the NAME= subcommand of
                the USERPROC command.  Follow this command by the statements of
                your LISREL program.  End the procedure with an END USER command.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  11
0
                   USERPROC NAME=LISREL
                    (LISREL program)
                   END USER

                SPSS-X LISREL instructions are, for the most part, the same as
                those in the stand-alone version of the program. These are
                documented in the LISREL user's manual. SPSS-X adds other
                instructions and options to allow you to use SPSS-X variables and
                missing values in the LISREL procedure (see Section 30).

                    LISREL control cards form many groups. Some control cards
                within groups have identical syntax rules.


                3  Specifications for Control Cards which Read Data

                Many LISREL control cards can read data.  Some control cards read
                numeric values (e.g. CM) and others read labels (e.g. LA).  They
                can read data either from the cards following the control card or
                from an external file. These control cards share common
                specifications for how the data are to be read.

                UN=n  Unit number for input data.  The default is unit 5,
                      following the control card.

                FO    Format for input data on unit 5.

                RE    Rewind file after reading.  This permits you to reread the
                      contents of a file in the same run.

                BA    Backspace (rewind) file before reading.  This option is
                      unique to SPSS-X LISREL.



                4  Formatted reading

                You can provide a FORTRAN style format for any command which reads
                labels or data. By default, LISREL reads the format from the same
                source as the data. If you specify FO, the format is read
                following the control card, even if the data are on an external
                file.

                5  Free-format reading

                By default, LISREL reads data for a control card in free-format
                for both labels and numeric data.  An asterisk in column 1 is no
                longer necessary. LISREL uses blanks and commas as delimiters
                between values.  You can continue data across any number of lines.
                LISREL reads from the input source until all values are set or it
                encounters a slash (/).  If it finds a slash, the remaining items
                are set to their default values (zero for numeric items, default
                label for labels).


                6  LISREL Title Card(s)
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  12
0
                The first card for any LISREL program must be a title card. You
                can continue a title for as many lines as you wish. Continuations
                require that column 80 not be blank. The first input line with a
                blank in column 80 completes a  title.


                7  The DA (data parameters) Control Card

                You must include a DA control card.  This control card determines
                the data LISREL uses.  There are four specifications on the DA
                card.

                NG=n   Number of groups.  The default is one group.

                NI=n   Number of input variables.

                NO=n   Number of observations.  The default is 100. If you specify
                       0 with raw input data, LISREL counts the actual number.

                MA=m   Matrix to be analyzed.  CM (covariance matrix) is the
                       default.



                The MA (matrix to be analyzed) specification.  There are four
                choices for the MA specification on the DA control card.

                CM  Covariance matrix.  This is the default.

                KM  Correlation matrix.

                MM  Moment matrix.

                AM  Augmented moment matrix.  This is the sample moment matrix
                    with the variable CONST added as the last variable. CONST has
                    a value of one for every input case.




                8  Control Cards for Raw Input Data

                These control cards differ between SPSS-X and stand-alone LISREL.

                9  The NA (names) control card

                This lists variables by their SPSS-X names.  This control card is
                unique to SPSS-X LISREL (see Section 30).

                10  The RA (raw data) control card

                There are four optional specifications on the RA control card.

                MV  Multiple values specification.  This specifies the maximum
                    number of discrete values a variable can have without being
                    treated as continuous. If the number of discrete values is
                    less than or equal to this value, LISREL computes polyserial
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  13
0
                    or polychoric correlations.

                MT  Missing-values treatment.  This specification is unique to
                    SPSS-X LISREL. You can choose among four missing-value
                    treatments. The default treatment is LI.  See Section 32.

                PP  Print page for each pair of variables.  You can use this
                    specification when you compute polychoric or polyserial
                    correlations (MV set greater than one). The PP specification
                    produces a very, very large volume of output.

                PT  Print technical output from minimization.  You can use this
                    specification when you compute polychoric or polyserial
                    correlations (MV set greater than one). The PT specification
                    produces a very, very large volume of output.



                The MT (missing values treatment) specification.  The MT
                specification is unique to SPSS-X LISREL. MT specifies either
                listwise or pairwise deletion and whether to include user-missing
                values (see Section 32).

                LI     Listwise deletion of cases with missing values.  This is
                       the default.

                PA     Pairwise deletion of cases with missing values.

                LI,IN  Listwise deletion of cases with system-missing values.

                PA,IN  Pairwise deletion of cases with system-missing values.




                11  Control Cards for Matrix Input Data

                LISREL can read directly the matrix or matrices to analyze.  Each
                kind of matrix defines a control card. Remember, even when you
                input data as a matrix, SPSS-X requires an active file (see
                Section 37).

                12  Moment, covariance, and correlation matrices

                LISREL reads these matrices across rows.

                CM  Covariance matrix.

                KM  Correlation matrix.

                MM  Moment matrix.

                These control cards have two specifications in addition to those
                common to other commands which read data (see Section 3).

                SY  Read a symmetric (lower triangular) matrix.  This is the
                    default.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  14
0
                FU  Read a full rectangular matrix.



                13  Means and standard deviations

                LISREL can also read vectors containing the means and/or standard
                deviations of the observed variables. There are two additional
                control cards for this purpose. These control cards have the
                specifications common to control cards which read data (see
                Section 3).

                ME  Read means.

                SD  Read standard deviations.




                14  LA Control Card to Label Observed Variables

                You can use the LA control card to label the observed variables in
                your analysis.  This cards reads data and has the specifications
                described in Section 3.

                LA  Labels for observed variables.




                15  The SE (select variables) Control Card

                Use this card to order and label variables. Observed dependent y-
                variables must precede observed independent x-variables.


                16  Control Cards Specifying Model to be Estimated

                You must include a MO (model parameters) control card. The MO
                control card must precede all other control cards used to specify
                the model.  Use the other control cards to fix, free, and equate
                parameter values (FR, FI, NF, EQ, and PA) or to specify initial or
                fixed values (ST, VA, and MA).

                17  The MO (model parameters) control card

                You must include an MO control card. This card describes the model
                LISREL must estimate.

                Specification of types and numbers of variables in model.  There
                are four specifications for the latent and observed variables in
                the model.

                NY=n  Number of y (observed dependent) variables.

                NX=n  Number of x (observed independent) variables.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  15
0
                NE=n  Number of eta (latent dependent) variables.

                NK=n  Number of xi (latent independent) variables.



                Parameter matrix specifications.  You can specify the form and/or
                mode of any or all LISREL parameter matrices on the MO control
                card.  These matrices are  LY, LX, BE, GA, PH, PS, TE, and TD.

                FU  A rectangular or square non-symmetric matrix.

                SY  A symmetric, non-diagonal matrix.

                ZE  A zero matrix.

                DI  A diagonal matrix.

                ID  An identity matrix.

                IZ  An identity and zero matrix.  A partitioned matrix containing
                    an identity matrix and a zero matrix   [I 0].

                ZI  A zero and identity matrix.  A partitioned matrix containing a
                    zero matrix and an identity matrix  [0 I].

                SD  A subdiagonal matrix.  A lower triangular matrix with diagonal
                    elements equal to 0 (BETA only).

                ST  A symmetric matrix.  A symmetric matrix with fixed ones in the
                    diagonal (e.g.  a correlation matrix).

                The possible modes are

                FI  Values are fixed.

                FR  Values are free.



                Additional specifications for analyses with multiple groups.

                SP  Same pattern of fixed and free values as in preceding group.

                SS  Same starting values as in preceding group.

                PS  Same pattern and starting values as in preceding group.

                IN  Matrix is invariant over groups.



                18  Cards to free, fix, and equate parameter values

                There are five LISREL control cards which free, fix, or equate
                parameter values. Four of these act on individual elements.  The
                fifth sets the entire fixed/free pattern of a single parameter
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  16
0
                matrix.

                Control cards to set individual elements.  These control cards
                share the same format.

                FR  Free parameter(s).

                FI  Fix parameter(s).

                NF  Never free (permanently fix) parameters.  Use this control
                    card with automatic model modification to specify parameter
                    values which should not be changed.

                EQ  Constrain parameters to be equal.



                Set an entire fixed/free pattern for a matrix.  You can use the PA
                control card to set the pattern for an entire parameter matrix.

                PA  Read pattern of fixed or free elements of matrix.  This
                    control card reads data and has the specifications described
                    in Section 3.



                19  Cards to set individual parameter values


                ST  Starting values for parameter matrix.

                VA  Fixed values for parameter matrix.

                MA  Read matrix of starting values for specified matrix.  This
                    control card reads data and has the specifications described
                    in Section 3.



                20  Cards to Label Latent Variables

                You can use two control cards to label the latent variables in
                your model.  These cards read data and have the specifications
                described in Section 3.

                LK  Labels for latent xi variables.

                LE  Labels for latent eta variables.





                21  The PL (plot) Control Card

                You can use PL to plot the fitting function against values for any
                parameter.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  17
0
                22  The OU (output parameters) Control Card

                You must include an OU control card. OU must be the last control
                card for each group. Use OU to

                * specify the estimation method.

                * save a matrix to a file.

                * change format specifications.

                * print optional output.

                * use automatic model modification.



                23  Specifications which control estimation method

                LISREL only uses one estimation method in an analysis.  If you
                specify more than one estimation method on the OU card, LISREL
                uses the last one you specify. The default method is ML.

                ML  Maximum likelihood.  The initial estimates are obtained by
                    two-stage least squares.  This is the default.

                IV  Instrumental variables.  You do not get measures of overall
                    goodness-of-fit.

                TS  Two-stage least squares.  You do not get measures of overall
                    goodness-of-fit.

                IO  Initial estimates only (two-stage least squares).  You do not
                    get measures of overall goodness-of-fit.

                UL  Unweighted (ordinary) least-squares.  The initial estimates
                    are obtained by instrumental variables.

                GL  Generalized least squares.  The initial estimates are obtained
                    by two-stage least squares.



                The NS (no starting values) specification.  You must provide
                initial values. LISREL starts iterations by steepest descent.

                The OB (old BETA) specification is not supported.  In LISREL V,
                you could specify OB to use the LISREL IV definition of BETA
                instead of the current one. LISREL VI does not support this
                specification.

                24  Saving a matrix to a file

                You can save the matrix to be analyzed or any of the LISREL
                parameter matrices by specifying

                   parameter matrix=n
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  18
0
                where  n  is the logical unit number of the output file.
                You can specify more than one matrix on the OU card.  You can
                write the LY, LX, BE, GA, PH, PS, TE, and TD parameter matrices.
                You can also write the matrix to be analyzed, whether
                correlations, covariances, or moments, by using MA for the
                parameter matrix. Use EC to write the covariance matrix of maximum
                likelihood estimates. No matrices are saved by default.

                25  Input and output format specifications

                You can set the number of lines permitted in an input format, the
                number of decimal places in output, and the maximum LISREL CPU
                time on the OU control card.

                MF=n  Maximum number of lines in an input format.  The default
                      value is three.

                ND=n  Number of decimal places in printout.  The default value is
                      three.

                TM    Time (in CPU seconds) allowed.  The default value is 60.
                      This time refers to model estimation only. Polychoric and
                      polyserial correlations may take longer to compute than TM
                      seconds, but will not stop SPSS-X LISREL processing.



                26  Specifications for optional printout

                For every analysis, LISREL prints your title and a parameter
                listing, the matrix to be analyzed, parameter specifications,
                initial and final (ULS, GLS, or ML) parameter estimates, and
                overall goodness-of-fit measures (UL, GL, and ML only).  There are
                many options to produce additional output.

                PT  Print technical output.

                SE  Print standard errors.

                TV  Print t-values.

                PC  Print correlations of parameter estimates.

                RS  Print predicted and residual values.  This includes both raw
                    and normalized residuals and a normal probability plot of the
                    residuals.

                EF  Print total effects.

                VA  Print variances and covariances.

                MR  Same as RS, EF and VA.

                MI  Print modification indices.

                FS  Print factor scores regression.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  19
0
                FD  Print first derivatives.

                SS  Print standardized solution.

                AL  Print all output.



                27  Specifications for automatic model modification

                At your option, LISREL can automatically modify the model you
                specify initially. In each step, LISREL frees the fixed parameter
                or equality constraint which corresponds to the largest
                modification index.  You can use the NF (never free) control card
                to specify parameter values which should not be changed.  LISREL
                continues to relax model restrictions until no modification
                indices are statistically significant. There are two OU control
                card specifications which control automatic model modification.

                AM    Automatic model modification.  Use the AM specification to
                      obtain automatic model modification.  The default is no
                      automatic modification.

                SL=n  Significance level for modification index.  The default
                      value is 1 (p = 0.01).




                28  USING LISREL IN SPSS-X

                You must pay attention to several things to use LISREL effectively
                within SPSS-X. LISREL control card syntax differs considerably
                from that of SPSS-X. There are some differences in the LISREL
                language between the stand-alone version and SPSS-X LISREL. You
                must remember to have an active SPSS-X file even when you use
                matrix input for your data. You can use SPSS-X procedure output
                files as input to LISREL. You can use SPSS-X data management
                capabilities to prepare your data for LISREL.


                29  Peculiarities of LISREL Command Language for SPSS-X Users

                SPSS-X and LISREL have differing syntax rules. Abbreviations or
                continuations that work in SPSS-X do not work in LISREL and vice-
                versa.  This can cause you some confusion as you use both SPSS-X
                commands and LISREL control cards in the same SPSS-X program.

                SPSS-X rules.  SPSS-X syntax consists of commands and subcommands.
                Commands start with a command keyword in column one. The first
                word of any command keyword must be spelled out in full.  A
                command can take as many lines as necessary.  Blanks can appear
                anywhere between keywords and specifications, and specification
                and subcommand keywords can be abbreviated to three characters.  A
                command ends when another line begins in column one.

                    SPSS-X subcommands are specifications within a command which
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  20
0
                take values. You separate subcommands with slashes(/). You can use
                an optional equals sign (=) to link values to a subcommand
                specification.  The order of the subcommands is arbitrary in many
                SPSS-X commands and procedures.

                    All SPSS-X procedures read data only from the active SPSS-X
                file and/or a file you specify on the MATRIX INPUT command.
                Similarly, SPSS-X procedures write data only to the active SPSS-X
                file or to a file you specify on the PROCEDURE OUTPUT command.

                LISREL rules.  LISREL syntax is quite different. LISREL does not
                have commands and subcommands. LISREL has control cards.  LISREL
                cards have parameters instead of specifications.  Cards and their
                parameters correspond to SPSS-X commands, but with notable
                exceptions.

                * LISREL expects all parameters on the same line as the card
                  keyword. If there is not enough space on the line, you can
                  continue a card onto the next line by coding a "C" in the place
                  of a parameter specification.  This signals a continuation onto
                  the next line. Continuations of a line can have characters in
                  column one.

                  incorrect (specifications must be on same line or continuation):
                    DA NI = 5 NO=57
                    MA=CM
                  correct:
                    DA NI=5 NO=57 MA=CM
                         or
                    DA NI = 5 NO=57 C
                    MA=CM


                * LISREL parameter names can contain any number of characters, but
                  only the first two are significant. All the other characters in
                  the name are ignored.  Hence

                      DA
                      DATA-PARAMETERS
                      DATA
                      DAdataparameters

                are equivalent.

                * Like SPSS-X, specifications having values use an equals sign
                  (=).  Unlike SPSS-X, the equals sign is required and no spaces
                  are permitted before it.

                  incorrect:
                      DA NI 5
                      DA NI = 5
                  correct:
                      DA NI=5


                * Unlike parameter names, character values for a specification
                  cannot be extended beyond their two-character length.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  21
0
                  incorrect:
                     DA MATRIX=CMATRIX
                     DA MA=CMATRIX
                  correct:
                     DA MA=CM
                     DA MATRIX=CM


                * In addition to parameter specifications, many LISREL cards read
                  data matrices, such as initial values for parameters or variable
                  labels. By default, LISREL reads this data immediately following
                  the card (FORTRAN logical unit 5). Alternatively, you can ask
                  the program to read the data from an external raw data file
                  (defined by a FORTRAN logical unit number). By default, LISREL
                  reads the data in free format with either blanks or commas as
                  delimiters. LISREL reads as many lines as necessary to fill a
                  matrix or until it reaches a slash (/). If it finds a slash, the
                  program assigns the remaining items their default value.  You
                  can indicate that an item be given its default value by placing
                  two consecutive commas in the input data.  Instead of reading
                  data in free format, you can supply a FORTRAN format for the
                  data on the line(s) following the LISREL card (and before the
                  data if it also follows the card).  The format can take as many
                  as three lines (you can change this limit on the MF parameter of
                  the OU card).

                * LISREL requires control cards in a certain order. A title card
                  must come first, immediately followed by the DA (data
                  parameters) control card. If you have raw input data, the NA
                  (names) card must precede the RA (raw data) card. The NA or LA
                  card must precede the SE control card if the SE card refers to
                  the variables by label.  The MO (model) control card must
                  precede the FR, FI, NF, EQ, PA, VA, ST, MA, LK, and LE control
                  cards.  The OU card must be last. If you analyze multiple
                  groups, you must include an entire set of control cards,
                  starting with a title card, for each group.




                30  Differences between SPSS-X and Stand-Alone LISREL

                The SPSS-X version reads raw data only from the SPSS-X active
                file.  A NA (names) control card (subcommand) identifies the SPSS-
                X variables LISREL uses.  You must define missing values by SPSS-X
                commands, not with the XM(x missing) specification on the RA(raw-
                data) card. Users have a choice of listwise or pairwise deletion,
                with or without user-missing values.  The SPSS-X version enhances
                error handling from the stand-alone version.  Some output text and
                error messages are more readable.  Commands that read data now
                have a BA (backspace) parameter as well as a RE (rewind)
                parameter. RE rewinds a file after it has been read, and BA
                rewinds a file before it is read.

                    You can take advantage of SPSS-X facilities and procedures.
                You can create new variables and transform existing ones before
                your LISREL analysis. You can obtain descriptive statistics for
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  22
0
                the variables and try preliminary unconstrained analyses. Finally,
                you can analyze covariance and correlation matrices created by
                other SPSS-X procedures.

                31  Raw data input

                You can read raw data only from the active SPSS-X file.  Therefore
                SPSS-X LISREL introduces a NA (names) control card.  This control
                card identifies the variables on the active SPSS-X file to use in
                the analysis.  UN and RE are the only specifications allowed.  The
                NA card must precede the RA (raw data) card in an SPSS-X LISREL
                program.  You can name variables in the same way as on the LISREL
                SE (select) control card, placing each variable name in single
                quotes. Unlike the SE card, you can also omit the quotes around
                the variable names and employ the SPSS-X  TO convention.  The
                specifications

                   NA
                   'AGGCONS' 'NETINV' 'PRVWAGEB' 'TOTPROF'
                   'TOTINC' 'CAPSTOCK' 'TOTWAGEB' 'TOTPROD'
                   NA
                   AGGCONS NETINV PRVWAGEB TOTPROF TOTINC CAPSTOCK TOTWAGEB TOTPROD
                   NA
                   AGGCONS TO TOTPROF TOTINC CAPSTOCK TO TOTPROD

                all establish the eight named SPSS-X variables (AGGCONS ...
                TOTPROD) as the variables in the analysis.  The NA card refers to
                variables entirely by name and not by their position in the SPSS-X
                active file.  You therefore can use the NA control card to replace
                both the LA and SE cards. Here is an example with five variables
                used in a prediction model of academic performance.

                   stand-alone LISREL:
                   LA
                   'SATV' 'SATQ' 'GPAELECT' 'GPAMAJOR' 'HSGPA'
                   SE
                   'GPAELECT' 'GPAMAJOR' 'HSGPA' 'SATV' 'SATQ'
                   SPSS-X LISREL:
                   NA
                   GPAELECT GPAMAJOR HSGPA SATV SATQ

                The stand-alone program must first identify the input
                variables by position with LA, then reorder the variables with SE.
                This places the observed dependent variables first, followed by
                the independent variables. The NA card refers to variables
                entirely by name, so the variable name list  specifies them in the
                desired order.

                    There are changes to the specifications on the LISREL RA (raw
                data) card as well.  Since LISREL must read raw data from the
                active SPSS-X file, the UN (unit no) and RE (rewind)
                specifications are irrelevant and produce a warning message if
                included. The program now uses SPSS-X defined missing values.
                Therefore SPSS-X LISREL ignores the XM (missing value)
                specification of the RA (raw data) card and produces a warning
                message.  Instead use the MT specification to choose any of four
                missing-value treatments.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  23
0
                    You can have listwise or pairwise deletion of cases, while
                including or excluding user-missing values. You can request these
                options with the added MT (missing treatment) specification on the
                RD card. The values of MT can be

                         LI
                      MT=PA
                         LI,IN
                         PA,IN
                   where  LI=listwise, PA=pairwise, and IN=include user-missing.

                The default treatment is listwise deletion without including
                user-missing values.

                    Here is an example of a complete specification for raw input
                data:

                   NA
                   AGGCONS NETINV PRVWAGEB TOTPROF TOTINC CAPSTOCK TOTWAGEB TOTPROD
                   RA MT=LI,IN

                This program reads eight SPSS-X variables as raw data,
                includes user-missing values as valid, and deletes cases having
                system-missing values for any of the eight variables.

                32  Missing value treatments

                SPSS-X users of LISREL have a choice of four missing-value
                treatments.  You can have listwise or pairwise deletion of cases,
                while including or excluding user-missing values. Listwise
                deletion, excluding cases with a missing value for any variable,
                is the default treatment. You can also request pairwise deletion
                of missing values. In this case, SPSS-X LISREL uses a case to
                compute a correlation coefficient for a pair of variables if the
                case has valid values for both. The program ignores missing values
                for other variables in that case. Pairwise deletion is much slower
                and requires more storage than listwise deletion.  You also limit
                yourself to analyzing ONLY correlation matrices when you request
                pairwise deletion.  In either case, you can choose to include
                cases having user-missing values as valid.

                    You can request these options with the added MT (missing
                treatment) specification on the RA card. Options for MT are

                         LI        listwise deletion of cases with either user- or
                                   system-missing values
                         PA        pairwise deletion of cases with either user- or
                                   system-missing values
                         LI,IN     listwise deletion of cases with system-missing
                                   values
                         PA,IN     pairwise deletion of cases with system-missing
                                   values


                33  Unknown number of observations

                You can analyze a raw data file having an unknown number of
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  24
0
                observations. Set the number of observations to zero (NO=0) on the
                DA (data parameters) control card.  SPSS-X recognizes the end of
                the data file and sets NOBS to the number of cases it has read.
                Do NOT set the values of the last observation to all zeroes, as
                you would in stand-alone LISREL.  SPSS-X would treat that as a
                valid data case.

                34  Raw data for multiple group analyses

                There are two ways to input raw data for a multiple group
                analysis.  If you know the number of cases in each group, simply
                indicate that number on the NO specification of the DA control
                card for each group.

                    You must use a different procedure to input cases when you do
                not know the number in each group.  Use the SPSS-X SPLIT FILE
                command to segment the input file.  You must have a variable which
                identifies the groups on the data file to use SPLIT cases.  LISREL
                treats each split of the SPSS-X active file as data for one group.
                If your cases are not already ordered by group, use SORT CASES
                before SPLIT FILES.  Here is an example of a multiple group
                analysis where groups are defined by sex of individual in each
                case.

                   TITLE A MULTIPLE GROUP LISREL ANALYSIS - FOR DIFFERENT SEXES
                   FILE HANDLE EVALDATA / (file specifications)
                   GET FILE=EVALDATA
                   SELECT IF NOT MISSING(SEX)
                   SORT CASES BY SEX
                   SPLIT FILE BY SEX
                   USERPROC NAME=LISREL
                   MULTIPLE GROUP ANALYSIS  FOR MALES AND FEMALES
                   DA NGROUPS=2 NI=15 NO=0 MA=AM
                   (rest of LISREL control cards for first group)
                   DA NO=0
                   (rest of LISREL control cards for second group)
                   END USER

                The program first selects cases with valid values for the
                variable SEX. Then SPSS-X sorts the cases by values of SEX.
                SPLIT FILE establishes separate input subgroups for cases of
                females and of males.  The DA card specifies an analysis with two
                groups. The first set of control cards processes the first
                subgroup of cases, the second set processes the second subgroup.


                35  Matrix Input Data

                SPSS-X LISREL can read directly the covariance, correlation,
                moment, or augmented moment matrices to be analyzed. It can also
                read vectors of means and standard deviations for the observed
                variables.  This is done exactly as in stand-alone LISREL. You can
                produce these matrices in a first pass of raw data through LISREL
                itself by specifying MA on the OU card.  You can also create these
                matrices as output from other SPSS-X procedures.

                36  Matrices created by SPSS-X procedures
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  25
0
                Several SPSS-X procedures write matrix materials. When a procedure
                writes a file, you must specify the PROCEDURE OUTPUT command
                before the procedure. Then use the appropriate subcommand or
                option in that procedure to write the desired matrix to an output
                file.  REGRESSION, using the WRITE subcommand, can write vectors
                of means and standard deviations and matrices of correlations and
                covariances to a raw output file.  You also can write correlation
                matrices by specifying Option 4 on PEARSON CORR or using the WRITE
                subcommand of FACTOR. SPSS-X writes matrices in FORTRAN format
                8F10.7.

                    SPSS-X normally writes PROCEDURE OUTPUT files in variable
                length format, but LISREL reads matrices as fixed length records.
                You must include a RECFM F or RECFM FB specification when you
                define the procedure output file or subsequently LISREL will be
                unable to read it.  On an IBM OS system, this is part of the DCB
                (data control block) on the DD (data definition) card for the
                file. On a CMS system, this is an option on the FILEDEF
                specification. Do NOT use both a FILEDEF and a FILE HANDLE for the
                same file.

                37  Procedures require an active file

                You must have an active file defined to execute a procedure. You
                cannot run LISREL, even if you are using matrix input, until an
                active file is created. A dummy dictionary and file can be created
                through an INPUT PROGRAM.

                   TITLE Creating an active file to use LISREL with matrix input
                   INPUT PROGRAM
                   NUMERIC A
                   END FILE
                   END INPUT PROGRAM
                   USERPROC NAME=LISREL
                   (LISREL program with matrix data input)
                   END USER



                38  Efficiency and Operating Considerations

                LISREL can be used inefficiently. Complex models necessarily
                require complex specifications.  LISREL needs considerable
                computer resources to obtain maximum likelihood estimates for
                models with large numbers of free parameters. Often you may
                estimate many different models for the same data. Following
                certain practices can make your job easier.

                Use edit runs.  LISREL specifications can be quite complex and the
                syntax differs considerably from that of SPSS-X. It is easy for
                you to make small errors in your specifications. Before you try to
                actually analyze data, run your program starting with an EDIT
                command.  LISREL will look for syntax errors, but will not access
                any data from the SPSS-X active file or read matrix input.

                Compute matrix on first run.  You can estimate many different
                models with the same data.  You can compute the covariance,
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  26
0
                moment, or correlation matrix you analyze just once, rather than
                every time you run the program. You can use the MA specification
                on the OU card to save the analysis matrix the first time you use
                LISREL on the data.  Alternatively, you can analyze a data matrix
                created as a PROCEDURE OUTPUT file from another SPSS-X procedure.

                Use default listwise deletion.  Pairwise deletion requires
                considerably more computer time and more memory than listwise
                deletion.  It also restricts you to analysis of correlation
                matrices.

                Minimize number of free parameters.  The number of free parameters
                is the number of values that LISREL must estimate. LISREL uses
                iterative procedures to derive these values. The computation time
                and workspace required increases rapidly with the number of free
                parameters. It is more efficient to start with a highly
                constrained model and later relax restrictions than vice-versa.

                Test identification of model.  LISREL can only compute consistent
                estimates for an identified model. The program can often detect an
                unidentified model by checking whether the information matrix is
                positive definite. If you are still concerned whether your model
                is identified, you can test identification with a method described
                in the LISREL user's guide.

                Choose good starting values.  The initial estimates for free
                parameters determined by TS (two-stage least squares) or IV
                (instrumental variables) methods are quite good if your model is a
                reasonable approximation to the observed data.  If you fix
                parameters at unreasonable values, the remaining estimates can be
                poor, and the program can have difficulty converging to a
                solution.

                Run obtaining initial estimates only.  Two-stage least squares and
                instrumental variable methods give consistent estimates for fully
                identified models in a fraction of the time necessary for maximum
                likelihood estimates. Use these methods while you estimate several
                different models, or successively refine one model for a single
                set of data. Then obtain maximum likelihood estimates, if you
                wish, for the chosen model, or the model in its final form.


                39  LISREL under IBM OS

                You must alter the catalogued procedure to successfully run LISREL
                with SPSS-X. You must specify the LISREL module on the STEPLIB
                statement in addition to the SPSS-X load module.  You must also
                include two scratch files used by LISREL: FT10F001 and FT20F001.
                These can be added permanently to the catalogued procedure at your
                site. Otherwise you must supply these every time you run an SPSS-X
                job containing a LISREL procedure.  Here is an example using
                substitution JCL with a catalogued procedure.

                   // EXEC SPSSX
                   //STEPLIB  DD DSN=SYS2.SPSSXLIB,DISP=SHR
                   //         DD DSN=SYS2.LISREL,DISP=SHR
                   //FT10F001 DD UNIT=&SCRUNIT,SPACE=(TRK,(1,1))
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  27
0
                   //FT20F001 DD UNIT=&SCRUNIT,SPACE=(TRK,(1,1))

                Note that the name of the SPSS-X and LISREL load modules may
                differ at your installation. The DASD group name reference
                (&SCRUNIT) can also differ at your site.

                    In addition, you will need to increase the region by
                approximately 192K when you run LISREL. Also set PARM=240K on the
                EXEC SPSSX statement.




                40  LIMITATIONS


                * LISREL cannot handle weighted data.

                * You can analyze ONLY correlation matrices if you request
                  pairwise deletion.

                * You can analyze ONLY correlation matrices if you request
                  computation of polyserial and polychoric correlations (by
                  setting MV > 1 on the RA card).




                41  LISREL EXAMPLES

                Here are three common types of LISREL analyses in SPSS-X.


                42  Example 1: Factor a published correlation matrix

                You can reanalyze published correlation and covariance matrices
                with LISREL. This requires matrix, rather than raw data, input.
                When you use matrix input, you still must have an active SPSS-X
                file. You can create a dummy SPSS-X file using the INPUT PROGRAM
                facility. This example reanalyzes data for nine psychological
                tests.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  28
0
                   TITLE USING LISREL TO REANALYZE PUBLISHED DATA - CREATE DUMMY FILE
                   INPUT PROGRAM
                   NUMERIC DUMMY /* CREATE DUMMY DICTIONARY
                   END FILE      /* CREATE DUMMY FILE
                   END INPUT PROGRAM
                   USERPROC NAME=LISREL
                   PERCEIVED ABILITY AND EDUCATIONAL ASPIRATION (CALSYN & KENNY, 1977)
                   DATAPARAMETERS NINPUTVARS=6  NOBSERVATIONS=556 MA=KM
                   LA
                   'EVALSELF' 'PEVALPNT' 'PEVALTCH' 'PEVALFND' 'EDUCASPN' 'COLLPLAN'
                   KM SY
                   1.00
                    .73 1.00
                    .70  .68 1.00
                    .58  .61  .57 1.00
                    .46  .43  .40  .37 1.00
                    .56  .52  .48  .41  .72 1.00
                   MODEL NX=6 NK=2 PH=ST
                   LK
                   'ABILITY' 'ASPIRATN'
                   FREE LX(1,1) LX(2,1) LX(3,1) LX(4,1) LX(5,2) LX(6,2)
                   OUTPUT  SE TV RS VA MI FS
                   END USER


                * An input program creates a dummy active file. NUMERIC creates an
                  entry in the data dictionary for the variable DUMMY. END FILE
                  ends the file with no cases. These commands reside within an
                  INPUT PROGRAM/END INPUT PROGRAM structure.

                * USERPROC identifies this as a LISREL program.

                * A title card identifies the topic and source of the data.

                * DA specifies six input variables for 556 observations and
                  analysis of a correlation matrix.

                * The LA card labels the six input variables.

                * The KM card specifies input of a correlation matrix.  SY
                  (symmetric) indicates the matrix is in lower triangular form.
                  FO is not specified, so data is freefield. UN is not specified,
                  so data follows the KM card.

                * MO specifies six observed independent variables and two latent
                  independent variables, a factor model. The phi matrix, the
                  correlations among the latent idependent variables, is made
                  symmetric with fixed ones on the diagonal. This makes it an
                  oblique factor model.

                * LK labels the two factors ABILITY and ASPIRATION.

                * FR identifies the factor loadings to estimate. The first four
                  observed variables (EVALSELF,PEVALPNT,PEVALTCH, and PEVALFND)
                  indicate the first factor (ABILITY). The last two observed
                  variables (EDUCASPN and COLLPLAN) indicate the second factor
                  (ASPIRATN).
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  29
0
                * OU prints standard errors (SE), t-values (TV), predicted and
                  residual values (RS),  variances and covariances (VA),
                  modification indices (MI), and factor score regressions (FS).

                * END USER returns the job to SPSS-X from LISREL.




                43  Example 2: Analyze an SPSS-X procedure output matrix

                You can use LISREL to obtain maximum likelihood estimates for
                parameters of standard linear models, such as regression and
                canonical correlation.  The following example demonstrates the use
                of LISREL in a regression context, where the covariance matrix
                analyzed is created by another SPSS-X procedure.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  30
0
                   required JCL for an OS system:

                   //FT09F001 DD DSN=XXXX,UNIT=SYSDA,DCB=(RECFM=FB,LRECL=80,BLKSIZE=800)

                   required FILEDEF for a CMS system:

                   FILEDEF 9 DISK XXXX YYY (RECFM FB LRECL 80 BLKSIZE 800

                   the SPSS-X program:

                   COMMENT THIS TESTS THE USE OF LISREL FOR SIMPLE REGRESSION
                   DATA LIST / GPAREQ 1-3(1) GPAELECT 5-7(1) GENKNOWL 9-10
                               IQ 12-14 EDMOTIV 16-19(1)
                   PROCEDURE OUTPUT OUTFILE=FT09F001
                   REGRESSION WRITE = COV /
                              VARIABLES = GPAREQ GPAELECT GENKNOWL IQ EDMOTIV/
                              DEPENDENT = GPAREQ GPAELECT /
                              ENTER
                   BEGIN DATA
                    .8 2.0 72 114 17.3
                   2.2 2.2 78 117 17.6
                        . . .
                   1.9 1.2 83 112 16.1
                   END DATA
                   USERPROC NAME=LISREL
                   TEST A SIMPLE REGRESSION MODEL
                   DA NI=5 NO=15
                   LA
                   'GPAREQ' 'GPAELECT' 'GENKNOWL' 'IQ' 'EDMOTIV'
                   CM UN=9 FU FO
                   (8F10.7)
                   SE
                   'GPAREQ' 'GPAELECT' 'GENKNOWL' 'IQ' 'EDMOTIV'
                   MO NY=2 NX=3
                   OU TV SE
                   END USER


                * PROCEDURE OUTPUT specifies that REGRESSION write its matrix
                  output to FT09F001, which corresponds to FORTRAN logical unit 9.

                * The WRITE subcommand tells REGRESSION to output the covariance
                  matrix to FT09F001. Regression obtains the normal least squares
                  of the regression parameters.

                * The USERPROC command identifies this as a LISREL program.

                * The LISREL DA (data parameters) card defines the number of
                  variables as 5 and the number of observations as 15.

                * LA assigns labels to the five variables in the input matrix.
                  These are in the same order as on the VARIABLES list in
                  REGRESSION.

                * CM indicates that the data is a covariance matrix on FORTRAN
                  logical unit 9, which corresponds to file FT09F001. FU specifies
                  a full (as opposed to a triangular) input matrix. FO  indicates
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  31
0
                  that the data format follows.

                * The data format, (8F10.7), is that REGRESSION uses for procedure
                  output of a covariance matrix.

                * SE selects the dependent and independent variables.  In this
                  case we use all the variables and they are already in the proper
                  order. Typically, however, you must use the SE control card to
                  select and reorder variables.

                * The MO (model parameters) card specifies that there are two
                  observed dependent, three observed independent, and no latent
                  variables.

                * LISREL outputs t-values (TV) and standard errors (SE) for
                  parameter estimates.

                * END USER returns the job to SPSS-X from LISREL.




                44  Example 3: An econometric model with SPSS-X variables

                SPSS-X LISREL can estimate simultaneous equation econometric
                models with two-stage least squares or full-information maximum
                likelihood estimates. The following example applies Klein's Model
                I of the economy to data for the years 1921-1941.  It estimates
                model parameters by IV (instrumental variables).  (For this model
                IV estimates are equivalent to two-stage least squares estimates.
                See Theil, 1971, page 459.)  The program uses the SPSS-X
                transformation language to compute lagged values for variables
                before the actual LISREL analysis.  The data includes values for
                1920 so lags could be calculated for 1921.
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  32
0
                   TITLE  SPSS-X LISREL ESTIMATES FOR KLEIN'S MODEL I OF U.S. ECONOMY
                   DATA LIST / YEAR 1-4 AGGCONS 6-8(1)
                               PRVWAGE 10-12(1) NETINVST 14-16(1)
                               GOVWAGE 18-19(1) TAXES 21-23(1)
                               TOTPROF 26-28(1) EOYSTOCK 30-33(1)
                               TOTPROD 35-37(1) TOTWAGE 39-41
                               TOTINC  43-45(1) GOVNWE 47-49(1)
                   COMMENT COMPUTE NECESSARY LAG VARIABLES
                   COMPUTE TOTPROF1 = LAG(TOTPROF,1)
                   COMPUTE EOYSTCK1 = LAG(EOYSTOCK,1)
                   COMPUTE TOTPROD1 = LAG(TOTPROD,1)
                   COMPUTE YEARS31 = YEAR - 1931 /* COMPUTE YEARS SINCE 1931
                   USERPROC NAME = LISREL
                   KLEIN'S MODEL I  ESTIMATED BY TWO-STAGE LEAST SQUARES (IV) AND ULS
                   DATAPARAMETERS NI=15 NO=21 MA=CM
                   NAMES
                   AGGCONS NETINVST PRVWAGE TOTPROF TOTINC EOYSTOCK TOTWAGE TOTPROD
                   GOVWAGE TAXES GOVNWE YEARS31 TOTPROF1 EOYSTCK1 TOTPROD1
                   RAWDATA
                   MODEL NY=8 NX=7 BETA=FU GAMMA=FI PSI=FI
                   FREE BETA(1,4) BETA(1,7) BETA(2,4) BETA(3,8)
                   FREE GAMMA(1,5) GAMMA(2,5) GAMMA(2,6) GAMMA(3,4) GAMMA(3,7)
                   FREE PSI(1,1)-PSI(3,3)
                   VALUES  1 BETA(4,5) BETA(5,1) BETA(5,2) BETA(6,2) BETA(7,3) BETA(8,5) C
                             GAMMA(5,3) GAMMA(6,6) GAMMA(7,1) GAMMA(8,2)
                   VALUES -1 BETA(4,7) GAMMA(5,2) GAMMA(8,1)
                   OUTPUT ULS
                   END USER
                   BEGIN DATA
                   1920                     127 1828 449
                   1921 419 255 - 2 27  77  124 1826 456 282 406  66
                                      .  .  .
                   1941 697 533  49 85 116  235 2094 884 618 853 223
                   END DATA


                * DATA LIST defines the original observed endogenous and exogenous
                  variables.

                * COMPUTE commands create four new variables. The lag function
                  produces lagged endogenous variables TOTPROF1, EOYSTCK1, and
                  TOTPROD1.  YEARS31 is an exogenous variable measuring years from
                  1931.

                * The USERPROC command identifies this as a LISREL program.

                * The LISREL DA (data parameters) card defines the number of
                  variables as 15 and the number of observations as 21.  The MA
                  specification indicates analysis of a covariance matrix.

                * NA identifies the fifteen variables in the active file used for
                  the analysis.

                * RAWDATA indicates that the data is from the active SPSS-X file.

                * The MODEL (model parameters) card specifies that there are eight
                  observed dependent, seven observed independent, and no latent
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  33
0
                  variables. The BETA matrix, representing effects of endogenous
                  variables on other endogenous variables is made full (BETA=FU).
                  The GAMMA matrix, regression parameters of the endogenous on the
                  exogenous variables, is fixed (GAMMA=FI).  The PSI matrix, the
                  residual covariances of the endogenous variables, is also fixed
                  (PSI=FI).

                * FREE control cards specify the parameters of the three
                  behavioral equations of Klein's model to estimate.

                * VALUES control cards establish fixed parameters for the five
                  identities in Klein's model.

                * The LISREL OU (output parameters) control card only specifies
                  ULS.  LISREL obtains instrumental variable and unweighted least
                  squares parameter estimates.

                * END USER returns the job to SPSS-X from LISREL.




                45  LISREL SUPPORT

                LISREL is not a regularly supported SPSS-X procedure. First, like
                graphics, it is an optional program product. Second, it is
                implemented as a USERPROC, not as a regular SPSS-X procedure.
                Third, SPSS, Inc. licenses this product from STATISTICAL SOFTWARE,
                Inc.  SPSS, Inc. has written only the routines which allow you to
                use LISREL from within SPSS-X.

                    This is the only documentation SPSS, Inc. currently provides
                for the LISREL procedure. User manuals must be obtained from
                International Educational Services.  SPSS, Inc. cannot provide you
                with any copies of the user's guide.

                    SPSS, Inc. will not provide technical assistance concerning
                program specification, operation, or interpretation.  We will,
                however, welcome reports of potential program bugs.

                    SPSS, Inc. will provide training in the use of LISREL in SPSS-
                X.  Public seminars have already been scheduled. Check your
                current copy
                 of Keywords for information on training schedules and charges.


                46  LISREL Documentation

                Copies of the user's manual, LISREL V and LISREL VI: Analysis of
                Linear Structural Relationships by Maximum Likelihood and Least
                Square Methods, can only be obtained from

                   International Educational Services
                   P.O. Box 536
                   Mooresville, IN 46158
                   (317) 831-6296
1               SPSS-X INFO                                           LISREL    PAGE  34
0
                Single copies (as of July 1, 1983) are $18.00 plus $1.75
                postage. A LISREL VI manual will be available sometime in 1984.
                Call International Educational Services for current prices,
                availability, and quantity discounts.  Manuals will not be
                available from SPSS, Inc.
