DOC#LOGAX1 PUBLIC                          Latest update:  12/01/67
Information Technology Services            Creation date:  00/00/00
Stanford University                        Length:        146 lines

Title:  Logarithmic Axis Plotting for the CalComp Plotter

Library Program Number:  C025

Subprogram name(s):  LOGAX1, LIMIT1

Summary:  These subroutines can be used to plot a scaled axis on the
          CalComp plotter with logarithmically placed tick marks.

Field of application:  Plotting, Graphics

Search key:  Output, Plotting, CalComp

Languages from which this routine may be called:  FORTRAN IV;
                                                  Assembler; OS/360

Principal source language:  OS/360 FORTRAN IV (H)

Secondary source language:  None

Type of routine:  Subroutine with standard calling sequence

Machine on which routine will execute:  IBM System/360

Monitor or operating system required:  OS/360

Special machine requirements:  Floating point feature, 7 track tape
                               drive or online plotter as specified
                               by the Stanford Xtrinsic Library
                               plotter subroutines

Call:  CALL LOGAX1 (X, Y, S, CMIN, CMAX, CYCLE, THETA, AXSIDE)

Declarations:  None

Special system control cards needed:  Either catalogued procedures
                                      PLOTCLG or PLOTLG must be used
                                      or appropriate control cards
                                      similar to these must be used

Use:  This subroutine plots a logarithmic axis on the CalComp
      plotter, starting at point (X,Y) and moving S inches at an
      angle THETA to theplotter positive X axis.  The number of
      logarithmic cycles plotted will be determined from CMIN and
      CMAX.  The first tick mark (at X,Y) will correspond to the
      value of CMIN.  Tick marks will be plotted at each integer
      within a decade, and the tick marks at the end of each decade
      will be larger to help show the end of the decade (log cycle).
      The side of the axis on which the tick marks are plotted is
      determined by the sign of AXSIDE.

      When the plotting of the axis and tick marks is finished,
      AXSIDE is checked to determine whether or not annotation is
      wanted and whether the annotation should be at 0 or 90 degrees
      to the plotter X axis.  The pen goes backward down the axis,
      labeling the end of each decade, if this annotation is desired.

Other input:  None

Other output:  Output is plotted on the CalComp, either with or
               without an intermediate tape drive as specified by the
               system.

Error conditions and messages:  None

Accuracy:  Within the accuracy of the plotter

Time:  Object code dependent

Non-library routines or subroutines required:  PLOT1, NUMBR1, SYMBL1.
                                               Also STRPT1 must have
                                               been called before
                                               calling this sub-
                                               routine.

Library routines or subroutines required:  SIN, COS, ISIGN, ALOG10,
                                           INT, ABS, IABS

Library routines required:  None

Storage requirements:  B38   = 2862   bytes
                          16       10

Registers used:  FORTRAN IV (H)

Call:  CALL LIMIT1 (ARRAY, NUMPTS, TYPE, CMIN, CMAX)

Declarations:  None

Special systems control cards needed:  None

Use:  This subroutine searches a data array for maximum and minimum
      values, and then uses these values to determine the end points
      for LOGAX1.

      Caution:  all data values are assumed positive for logarithmic
                plotting

Other input:  None

Other output:  None

Error conditions and messages:  If LIMIT1 finds any negative data
                                values, your program will be
                                terminated immeidately.

Accuracy:  The output is in the correct form for input to LOGAX1.
           The input data in ARRAY must all be of positive sign.

Time:  Subroutine timing is object dependent - it does an array
       search

Non-library routines or subroutines required:  None

Library routines required:  ALOG10, AINT, INT

Storage requirements:  3D0  bytes = 976  bytes
                          16           10

Registers used:  FORTRAN IV (H)

Program description:  Special coding:  I = INT(A)
                                       IF (A.LT.0.0) I = INT(A-1.0)

                      This coding gives I an integer value smaller
                      than A for all A.

                      Examples:  If A = 2.3, I = 2.  If A = 2.3,
                                 I = -3.

                      Smaller in this case means the closest integer
                      value in the negative direction from A.

                      CMIN and CMAX are found by various combinations
                      of exponentiating the integer portion of the
                      base 10 log. of the min. and max. values.

Programmer:  James Crapuchettes, Stanford Electronic Lab

Certified by:  Mark F. Nelson, Civil Engineering Dept.

Date:  August 1, 1967
