DOC#LWSELF PUBLIC
Information Technology Services             Latest update:  10/06/86
Stanford University                         Length:        226 lines

Instructions for using the self-service LaserWriter Plus printer in
the user equipment room at Forsythe Hall.

For the contents of the file, type the command:  LIST '*' 1
For particular topics, type the command:  LIST 'topic'

Exceptions to schedules are announced in SERVICE announcements.
Type HELP SERVICE LWSELF for status of the self-service LaserWriter.


*General Instructions
---------------------

The Apple LaserWriter Plus in Forsythe Hall's user equipment room is
a graphics output device and self-service printer connected to the
Data Center's mainframe computer.  This document contains general
instructions regarding all printing, instructions about plotting and
other graphics output, and directions for printing text in Postscript
language files, in WYLBUR files, or by means of batch jobs.  There
is a 10,000-line limit on jobs for this printer.

The LaserWriter provides a high-quality alternative to the Versatec
plotter for users of Top Drawer and the OPS plotting routines.  The
LaserWriter emulates the functions of the Versatec plotter and can
process any plot file created for the Versatec.  In the future the
LaserWriter is intended to serve as a replacement for the Versatec,
providing a less expensive and higher quality service.

The LaserWriter also provides a less expensive and more convenient
plotting service for Top Drawer users who are currently using the
Zeta pen plotter to generate small black and white plots.

The SAS statistical package can also produce plots for the
LaserWriter using the standard SAS/Graph plotting commands.  Plots
can use such features as gray-scale shading and the native
LaserWriter fonts.  Generating SAS plots for the LaserWriter is much
less expensive than using the current SAS plotting service on the
Xerox 9700 and provides superior quality.


*Service Schedule
----------------

During most of every day, the LaserWriter is available for
self-service printing only.  Material to be binned or otherwise
dispatched (see next section) will be printed and dispatched by
Production Control three times a day, at 5:00 AM, 2:00 PM, and 8:00
PM.  Everything in the queue at those times will be printed and then
the equipment will be returned to self-service status.


*Instructions for All Printing
-----------------------------

To have your job printed on the self-service LaserWriter, specify
DEST=LWSELF as a print option.  This option can be used with the
Wylbur PRINT and RUN commands or in batch JCL on the /*JOBPARM
statement.  Printing on the LaserWriter costs 15 cents a page; there
is no dispatch charge for self-service use.

If you want your job printed on this printer but you also want it
placed in your bin at Forsythe Hall or delivered to you by ID Mail
or United Parcel Service, specify DEST=LWDISP to have it dispatched
by Production Control.  As noted in the previous section, jobs with
this destination will be printed only at 5:00 AM, 2:00 PM, and 8:00
PM.  Everything in the queue at those times will be printed and then
the equipment will be returned to self-service status.  The standard
$0.55 dispatch charge will apply to binned jobs; United Parcel
delivery charges and a handling charge will be applied to
UPS-delivered printing.


*Plotting:  Top Drawer and Versatec Emulation
---------------------------------------------

The LaserWriter emulates the functions of the Versatec plotter.
Plots generated for the Versatec by Top Drawer or the OPS plotting
routines can be processed without modification on the LaserWriter.
Specify DEST=LWSELF in your JCL or in the RUN command to route the
plots to the LaserWriter instead of the Versatec.

The Top Drawer command SET DEVICE VERSATEC should be used when
generating plots for the LaserWriter.

Multipage continuous plots generated by Top Drawer using SET
DEVICE VERSATEC CONTINUOUS can also be processed on the
LaserWriter.  Such plots will be printed in pieces on separate
sheets of paper.


*Plotting:  SAS/GRAPH Plotting and Graphics Commands
---------------------------------------------------

You can use the SAS statistical package to generate plots for the
LaserWriter with the standard SAS/Graph plotting and graphics
commands.

You should specify SASVER=V516 in your JCL; this is the only version
of SAS that can plot on the LaserWriter.  To tell SAS to produce
plots for the LaserWriter, include the following lines at the start
of your SAS input:

   %INCLUDE SASAUTOS(LASERW);
   %LASERW;

Plot output will be written to SYSOUT=C and will be automatically
routed to DEST=LWSELF by the system.  The plot file will be a text
file containing statements in Postscript, a page description
language which the LaserWriter will process to produce plots and
graphics.

The DEVICE option should be removed from any GOPTIONS statements
that follow the %LASERW statement in your SAS input; otherwise the
information specified in the '%' lines will be overridden and plots
will not be generated correctly.

Plots will be generated in landscape orientation on the page (with
the bottom of the plot on the long side of the page).  Plots may be
generated in portrait orientation by specifying LASERWP instead of
LASERW in the '%' lines.  GOPTIONS ROTATE cannot be used to
perform this function.


*Postscript Language Printing
-----------------------------

Internally the LaserWriter is controlled by commands expressed in a
programming language called Postscript.  Postscript language files
can be sent to the LaserWriter from WYLBUR by specifying the
POSTSCRIPT (or POST) option on the PRINT command.  For example,

         PRINT POST DEST=LWSELF

Your file will be sent to the LaserWriter without modification and
will be processed by the Postscript language interpreter contained
in the printer.


*Simple Text Printing
---------------------

The LaserWriter can also be used to print text created by WYLBUR or
by batch jobs.  The various WYLBUR and JCL print options will work
in the same way that they work on the Xerox 2700 and 9700 printers
and on the HP LaserJet printer.

Print Orientation

Text can be printed in portrait mode (lines parallel to the short
side of the page) or in landscape mode (lines parallel to the long
side of the page).

WYLBUR print jobs will be printed in portrait mode unless the
LANDSCAPE (or LAND) option is specified.

Batch job output will be printed in landscape mode if the forms code
is 1181, 1281, or 1411; otherwise it will be printed in portrait
mode.


Carriage Control

Vertical lines per inch is specified with FCB=n, where n can range
from 1 to 999.  The default is FCB=6 (in landscape mode, FCB=8).


Forms Flash

Currently only the MEMO flash is available (specify PRINT MEMO or
FLASH=MEMO as an option on your PRINT command).


Character Sets

In portrait mode the default character set is CU10 (10-pitch
Courier, a fixed-pitch character set, like that on a typewriter).
In landscape mode the system will set the pitch based on the line
length of the text being printed.

The following list shows the CHARS options that are available.  In
the list, "nn" specifies the pitch for fixed-pitch sets (Courier);
for the proportionally spaced ones (Helvetica and Times Roman), "nn"
stands for point size of the characters:

  CUnn - Courier (typewriter-style character set)
  CLnn - Courier light (like CUnn but lighter)
  BDnn - Bold Courier
  ITnn - Italic Courier

  HEnn - Helvetica
  HBnn - Helvetica bold
  HInn - Helvetica italic

  TRnn - Times Roman
  TBnn - Times Roman bold
  TInn - Times Roman italic

The Courier style character sets are fixed pitch, and the 'nn' in
the name indicates the pitch (characters per inch).  The pitch can
be any number from 1 to 99, with larger numbers specifying a higher
pitch and smaller character size.

Helvetica and Times are proportionally spaced character sets, and
the 'nn' in the CHARS name specifies the point size of the
characters (the character cell height in units of 1/72 inch).  The
point size can be any number from 1 to 99, with bigger numbers
specifying a bigger point size and thus a bigger character size.  A
point size of 11 or 12 would be the normal size for printing at 6
lines per inch.

All character sets are available in both portrait and landscape
mode.  To print in landscape mode, specify LANDSCAPE (or LAND) as a
print option.

If you request a character set that the printer does not have, the
system will use a Courier character set with the same pitch.

Multiple character sets can be combined on a page in the same way as
on the 3800 and 9700, by using the CHARS option and including a
character set selection byte in the first print column.  The new
WYLBUR print formatting options (like <..b+>) can also be used to
generate bold or italic characters.
