DOC#MULLR1 PUBLIC                          Latest update:  08/01/67
Information Technology Services            Creation date:  00/00/00
Stanford University                        Length:        152 lines


Title:  Muller's Method

Library Program Number:  C009

Subprogram name(s):  MULLR1

Summary:  Subroutine MULLR1 finds complex roots of an arbitrary
function of one complex variable.

Field of application:  Mathematics

Search key:  Muller, Complex, Roots, Zeroes

Languages from which this routine may be called:  FORTRAN IV,
                                                  Assembler

Principal source language:  FORTRAN IV (H)

Type of routine:  Standard OS/360 Subroutine subprogram

Machine on which routine will execute:  IBM System/360

Monitor or operating system required:  OS/360

Special machine requirements:  NOne

Call:  CALL MULLR1 (Pl, P2, P3, MXM, NRTS, EP1, EP2, SW1, SW2,
       SW3, ROOTS, N, FUNC)

Parameters:

     Parameter     Type                   Description

       P1       complex variable
                short precision      starting value of the
                                     independent variable of the
       P2       complex variable     function
                short precision

       P3       complex variable
                short precision

       MXM      full word integers   maximum number of iterations to
                                     be made in finding any one
                                     root (e.g., 20)

       NRTS     full word integers   number of roots to be found

       EP1      real variable        tolerance
                short precision
                                                 (e.g., 5E-6)
       EP2      real variable        tolerance
                short precision

       SW1      logical variable     if TRUE, both the iterate and
                                     corresponding values are printed
                                     by MULLR1

       SW2      logical variable     if TRUE, each root value is
                                     printed by MULLR1

       SW3      logical variable     if TRUE, when applicable, the
                                     complex conjugate of each root
                                     is admitted as a root

       ROOTS    complex array        roots found
                short precision

       N        full word integers   size of array ROOTS.  (NRTS is
                                     not greater than N)

       FUNC     complex function     name of complex function
                subprogram           subprogram defining function, of
                                     single argument, whose roots are
                                     to be found

Declarations:  REAL EP1, EP2
               INTEGER MXM, NRTS, N
               COMPLEX P1, P2, P3, ROOTS, FUNC
               DIMENSION ROOTS (--)
               LOGICAL SW1, SW2, SW3
               EXTERNAL FUNC

Special system control cards needed:  None

Use:  Subroutine MULLR1 is an algorithm using Muller's method to
find real and complex roots of an arbitrary complex function.  The
user must supply a complex function of one argument which calculates
the value of the function whose zeroes are to be found.  The method
used is that of fitting a parabola through the function values of the
3 starting points P1, P2, and P3, and then using one of the roots of
the parabola as a new starting point.  The process is repeated until
either a root is found or the number of iterations has exceeded MXM.

MULLR1 may be used for finding roots of polynomials with complex
coefficients only, but a Bairstow procedure is much more
satisfactory for that purpose.

It is very time consuming to print each iteration which has been done
in the library program only for illustrative and checking purposes.
Muller recommends starting values of -1, 1, and 0.

Other input:  None

Other output:  None

Error conditions and messages:  no convergence within MXM
iterations.  NO CONVERGENCE, LAST ITERANT IS ---

Accuracy:  Not applicable

Time:  Approximately 0.04 seconds (FORTRAN IV (H))

Non-library routines or subroutines required:  FUNC (supplied by
                                               user)

Library routines or subroutines required:  REAL, AIMAG, ABS

Library routines required:  None

Storage requirements:  4100 bytes

Registers used:  Standard OS/360 FORTRAN IV (H) calling sequence

Program description:  This program uses only the general purpose
registers; the floating-point registers are not disturbed in any
way.  The full 20 hex digit product is truncated to 14 hex digits
following post normalization.

References:  Muller, David, 'A Method for Solving Algebraic
             Equations Using an Automatic Computer,' "Mathematical
             Tables and Other Aids to Computation," Vol. 10 (1956),
             p. 208.

             Frank, Werner L. 'Finding Zeroes of Arbitrary
             Functions,' "Journal of the ACM," Vol. 5 (1958), p. 154.

             Rodman, Robert D. 'Muller's Method,' "Communications of
             the ACM," Vol. 6, No. 8 (Aug. 1963) p. 442.

Programmer:  W. E. Riddle
             Stanford Computation Center Campus Facility

Certified by:  John Welsch
               SLAC Computation Group

Date:  April 12, 1968
