DOC#ORVYL PUBLIC                            Latest update:  03/17/87
Information Technology Services             Length:        260 lines
Stanford University

This online file documents changes to the ORVYL timesharing monitor
on the ITS 3090.  Items will remain in this file until they are
included in the permanent documentation.

The following is a list of current ORVYL documentation:

    ORVYL File System (#102)
    ORVYL User's Guide (#511)
    ORVYL Reference Manual (#246)

    ORVYL/SORT (#217)
    ORVYL/FORTRAN User's Guide (#250)
    ORVYL/SPITBOL User's Guide (#263)
    APL/ORVYL Programmer's Guide (#380)
       (online: WYL.SI.APL.DOC#PROGUIDE)

In addition, separate documentation is available for ORVYL programs
such as SORT, WATORV, etc.  For more information about
documentation, contact Document Sales, Forsythe Hall, 723-4877.

To print a copy of this file, give the command PRINT.

To list all item titles for a table of contents, give the command
LIST '*' 1.  To find a particular topic, give the command
LIST 'topic'.


*10/14/86  ORVYL TESTING RESCHEDULED

Further load testing of ORVYL Release 5 on Sunday, October 12
encountered a number of problems which must be corrected before
ORVYL Release 5 can be made available for weekend testing.  As a
result, the user testing schedule for the weekend of October 18 - 19
has been cancelled.

Further information about the October 25 - 26 test and the proposed
November 1st installation will appear in this document as soon as
possible.


*10/02/86  ORVYL RELEASE 5 TO BE INSTALLED NOVEMBER 1

A major new version of ORVYL will be installed November 1, 1986.
The new ORVYL will be more powerful and run more efficiently
than before.  It will also be able to support more users with more
consistent response time than was previously possible.

The current ORVYL was designed in the late 1960s, to suit the
technology of that time.  As demand has increased and hardware and
software have changed, ORVYL has been modified to make better use of
new technology and to provide more power to more users.  Its basic
internal structure, however, has remained relatively unchanged.

ORVYL Release 5 is a complete revision and restructuring of ORVYL's
basic design, taking advantage of the software and hardware
engineering developments of the past 15 years.

MULTI-PROCESSING
The most notable change in ORVYL Release 5 is the move to a more
efficient multi-processor system, a system capable of using more
than one CPU simultaneously and efficiently.  The MP version of
ORVYL installed in January 1985 was the first step towards allowing
ORVYL to make simultaneous use of multiple CPUs.

ORVYL Release 5 uses an advanced technique to make more efficient
use of multiple processors.  Multi-processing greatly expands
ORVYL's power and capacity; ORVYL Release 5 will be capable of
running on up to 16 CPUs simultaneously.  (An IBM 3084 has four
CPUs.)

DECREASED LOAD DEPENDENCIES
Another major change in ORVYL Release 5 is a change in memory
management and paging.  In the current ORVYL, each program's memory
is considered part of a global pool of pages.  If a program is
waiting or not using its pages for some reason, its pages can be
taken and assigned to another program.  When the program tries to
restart, it must request each page again.  As a result, programs run
more slowly and use more resources (cost more to run) during periods
of heavy use than during off hours.

In ORVYL Release 5 each program is assigned a "working set" of pages
in memory, based on the pages it has referenced in a past period
of time.  These pages cannot be taken from it by another program.
As a result, ORVYL charges will be less affected by the load on the
system.

MORE ADDRESSABLE MEMORY
ORVYL Release 5 has an address space of 32 megabytes; the current
ORVYL has an address space of 8 megabytes.  The user work space will
still be 3 megabytes, as it is now, below the 16 megabyte boundary,
but shared programs will reside in in a special region of memory.
As time passes, more shared programs will be moved above the 16
megabyte boundary.  ORVYL Release 5 permits a number of shared
programs to be always present in memory.  This feature improves cost
effectiveness and response time.

Because shared program space is limited in ORVYL Release 5, the
requirements for shared programs are slightly different.  To be
shared, a program must be linked shared and must be listed in an
authorization table for shared programs.

NON-TRANSPARENCIES
The installation of ORVYL Release 5 will be virtually transparent to
the user.  There will be, however, the following non-transparent
changes:

   SHARED vs UNSHARED Efficiency:  ORVYL Release 5 was designed such
   that users using shared ORVYL programs, such as production
   SPIRES, Prism, and Folio, get maximum performance.  This is
   because shared programs are loaded into memory only once, and if
   multiple people use the program they are actually using fewer
   ORVYL resources per person than a user running an unshared
   program.  Your ORVYL efficiency and performance will be optimal
   if you use production versions of shared processors wherever
   possible.

   ERROR MESSAGES:  The diagnostic and status messages from
   the CLP in ORVYL Release 5 have been improved to enhance
   readability, increase accuracy, and provide more information to
   users.  For example, references to "CORE" in messages have been
   changed to "memory", as "CORE" is anachronistic.  Messages appear
   in a combination of upper and lower case, instead of all upper
   case, to improve readability.

   SHOW VUSERS Command:  The SHOW VUSERS command will no
   longer display the line number and subprocessor along with the
   other information.  This is a constraint based on the design of
   ORVYL Release 5.  However, account information will be supplied
   instead.  In most cases you can use the SHOW LINE command to
   display the line number and subprocessor information for a
   particular account.

   SHOW FILES Command:  The SHOW FILES command still displays the
   file names in upper case but displays other text information
   (such as Loadfile, Cr, La) in upper and lower case.  If you have
   an EXEC file that checks this information, you may need to
   change it.

FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
All of the existing (MODE 1) ORVYL services, as documented in the
ORVYL Reference Manual, will continue to work.  After the
installation, work will begin on the MODE 2 Services, which will
provide added functions and greater control over existing functions.
Mode 2 Services will permit more effective use of memory residing
over the 16 megabyte line as well as global sharing of immediately
available program functions and data.  Thus the new design of ORVYL
Release 5 provides the foundation for future enhancements and
growth.

CHARGES
ORVYL resources are divided between those considered overhead (MVS,
for example) and those that are charged to a particular session.
The new ORVYL uses these resources differently than the current
ORVYL.  To compensate for this and to maintain stable charging
between releases, the charge unit for the new ORVYL processing will
be adjusted.  The result should be roughly equivalent charges across
a variety of ORVYL sessions between the two versions of ORVYL.  We
would expect that charges for individual tasks could vary plus or
minus 15% between the current and new ORVYL because of the internal
processing differences.

TESTING AND TUNING
ORVYL Release 5 has been tested exhaustively and found to be
compatible with the existing ORVYL.  In addition, public test
periods are planned during the month of October, during which time
the weekend ORVYL community will have the opportunity of testing the
new ORVYL free of charge.  The test weekends will be on Saturday and
Sunday , October 18 and 19 and Saturday and Sunday, October 25 and
26.

Testing to date has subjected ORVYL to a simulated load of up to 250
very active terminals.  Hands-on testing will be more random and
will help to assure of system stability prior to the announced
production date of November 1.  Tuning will continue when ORVYL
Release 5 goes into production, to optimize ORVYL's efficiency under
normal week day loading.


*06/24/85  SET REGION MAX OPTION ON ORVYL COMMAND DISCONTINUED

The MAX option on the ORVYL command SET REGION, which was often used
with SPIRES applications in the past, is no longer required and is
being discontinued.  Beginning June 30, 1985, the SET REGION MAX
command will generate a warning message.

The command will become invalid at a later date.  When that happens,
it will generate error messages and will cause a break if it is
included in an EXEC file or protocol.  SPIRES users should check any
job streams that they maintain to run production batch SPIRES work.

As a convenience to SUBMIT users, we will remove all SET REGION MAX
statements from jobs in the SUBMIT data base.  Users who regenerate
their SUBMIT jobs from other sources must correct these copies
themselves.

*08/30/84  INCREASED ORVYL USER MEMORY

A new version of ORVYL to be installed September 1, 1984,
increases the user memory available for interactive programs under
ORVYL.

Each user will have a 3 megabyte address space from which the
program area and work space will be allocated.  The user region (the
sum of the program size and the work space) can be as large as one
megabyte (1024K).  Within the one megabyte region limit there are no
individual restrictions on program area or work space size.

The one megabyte user region limit, increased from 776K, is now the
default REGION size.  Consequently, you no longer need to use the
SET REGION MAX command.

This change affects the addresses for the program area and the
work space.  The address changes are as follows:

         -  The address space is now 3 megabytes starting at
            x'500000'.

         -  All programs begin loading at x'500000', instead of
            x'600000'.

         -  For non-shared programs (e.g., Fortran under ORVYL)
            the work space starts at the next 4K boundary after
            the program area.

         -  For shared programs (e.g., SPIRES) the work space
            starts at the next one megabyte boundary after the
            program area.

In addition, the map size has been increased from 96K to 128K, to
allow room for more external symbols.  The 128K maximum is now the
default map size.


*04/15/84  SET SPIFILE COMMAND PROVIDES MORE ORVYL FILE SECURITY

A new set of ORVYL commands, SET SPIFILE, SET NOSPIFIL and SHOW
SPIFILE, can be used to block read access to SPIRES files by
non-SPIRES ORVYL programs.  Specifically, the SET SPIFILE command,
whose syntax is:

     SET SPIFILE orvyl.filename

tells ORVYL not to allow access to the named ORVYL file by any
program other than the Public SPIRES programs (including SPIBILD,
SPICOMP, SPISRCH, SPIUTIL, and batch SPIBILD) by any user other than
the file owner.  Access by non-SPIRES programs (as well as batch
SPIRES and batch FASTBILD and the test versions of all SPIRES
programs) is blocked.

Note that write access to all files except the DEFQ by non-SPIRES
programs has always been blocked by default, as has read and write
access by users who do not go through SPIRES security.  For more
information on ORVYL file security with SPIRES, type:

     CALL SPIRES
     EXPLAIN SET SPIFILE COMMAND
