DOC#QUADS1 PUBLIC                          Latest update:  08/01/67
Information Technology Services            Creation date:  00/00/00
Stanford University                        Length:        112 lines


Title:  Integration of a Real Function of One Variable by
        Classical Quadrature

Library Program Number:  C011

Subprogram name(s):  QUADS1

Summary:  QUADS1 approximates the integral of a real function of
one varialbe by a given classical quadrature rule.  The kind of
quadrature rule (e.g., Gauss, Hermite, Newton-Cotes, etc.), the
weights and abscissas re supplied by the user in the simplest form.

Field of application:  Mathematics

Search key:  Integration, Quadrature

Languages from which this routine may be called:  FORTRAN IV;
                                                  Assembler

Principal source language:  OS/360 FORTRAN IV (H)

Type of routine:  Standard OS/360 FORTRAN IV (H) real function
subprogram

Machine on which routine will execute:  IBM System/360

Monitor or operating system required:  OS/360

Special machine requirements:  Floating-point feature

Call:  Z = QUADS1(KIND, FUNCT, LOWER, UPPER, NPTS, PT, WT, REP)

Parameters:

     Parameter     Type                   Description

     KIND       full word integer    kind of quadrature requested

     FUNCT      real function sub-   the name of subprogram which
                program name         computes the values of the
                                     integrand

     LOWER,     real variables       the lower and upper limits of
     UPPER      short precision      the integration

     NPTS       full word integer    the number of points in the
                                     quadrature rule

     PT,WT      real arrays          the abscissas and weights of the
                short precision      given quadrature rule (see below
                                     for format)

     REP        full word integer    the number of times the
                                     quadrature rule is to be
                                     repeated in the interval
                                     (LOWER, UPPER)

                short precision      variable for which the
                                     interpolation takes place

Declarations:  EXTERNAL FUNCT in calling program, REAL FUNCTION
FUNCT subprogram declaration, and array declarations of quadrature
rule.

Special system control cards needed:  None

Use:  The parameter KIND controls the kind of quadrature rule to be
applied, and REP tells how many times it is to be repeated (where
application) between LOWER and UPPER.

Other input:  None

Other output:  None

Error conditions and messages:  None

Accuracy:  Depends on integrand and quadrature rule used.
Summation is done in long precision to prevent accummulation of
round-off error.

Time:  Depends almost entirely on the integrand.

Non-library routines or subroutines required:  REAL FUNCTION
subprogram to define the integrand (FUNCT).

Library routines required:  EXP

Storage requirements:  QUADS1   898 bytes(hex)
                        XP 16   11E1bytes(hex)

Registers used:  Standard OS/360 FORTRAN IV (H) calling sequence

Program Description:  After computing two variables used for DO
loop limits, the subroutine switches on KIND to the appropriate
section where the summation is done.  The quadrature rule is
transformed onto the subinterval and repeated the desired number
of times.

References:  P. J. Davis and P. Rabinowitz, "Numerical Integration,"
             Ginn-Blaisdell, 1967.

Programmer:  John H. Welsch
             SLAC Computation Group

Certified by:  Karen Murata

Date:  August 1, 1967
