options: unn ind 7 form bond marker *
WYL.GA.PUB.DOC#RACFCONV                  Last Updated: June 16, 1988

                       CONVERSION NOTES

With the conversion to IBM's Resource Access Control Facility (RACF),
in the Summer of 1988 a number of enhancements and minor non-transpar-
encies were introduced.  The first part of this document describes the
enhancements and the second part describes the non-transparencies.

For a general overview of RACF please read "Data Access and Security
at the Stanford Data Center - Using the RACF System."  The online
version can be found as DOC#PROTECT PUB.

ENHANCEMENTS

1. RACF keeps user, group and dataset information in a profile database.
   The former security system kept all information in the dataset
   control block (DSCB).  When a dataset was scratched, so was the DSCB
   and associated access rules.  This is not the case with RACF.  Once
   a profile is entered into the RACF database, it stays there until it
   is manually removed or is removed automatically under special
   conditions.

   This means that a dataset may be protected before it is created,
   and once created, it will be protected by the most specific profile
   that is in the RACF database.

   Dataset profiles may be manually removed by issuing the SET PROTECT
   ... DELETE command.

   Type HELP SET PROTECT for full explanation of various SET PROTECT
   options.

2. RACF dataset profiles are created and maintained via the Wylbur
   SET/SHOW PROTECT commands.

   The SET/SHOW PROTECT commands have been expanded in three important
   ways.  First, the command allows for dataset profiles that cover more
   than one dataset.  Through the use of wildcards (* for multiple
   characters and/or levels and % for single character substitution),
   you can protect several datasets with a single profile.  Typical
   examples are:

      DEFAULT                      - account default (includes all
                                     VSAM as well as WYLBUR datasets).
      WYL.gg.uuu.*                 - protects all WYLBUR datasets for
                                     an account (no VSAM).
      WYL.gg.uuu.MNTH%%88          - a monthly dataset where %%
                                     represents the various months.
                                     All 12 datasets can be protected
                                     by one profile.
      WYL.gg.uuu.BACKUP.*          - protects all backup datasets.

   Second, you may use RACF group names as well as accounts in the
   SET PROTECT command.  The limitations of three accounts or six
   accounting group names has been removed.  There is no practical limit
   to the number of group and/or accounts that can be used to protect
   your datasets.

   Third, RACF supports the following five access levels: None, Read,
   Update, Control and Alter.  The old access levels were None, Read,
   Password, Write.  The new Read access level works like the old
   Password access level.  Update, Control and Alter are new vocabulary.
   See item #1 in the non-transparency section below for translation
   rules for all access levels.  Current vocabulary will be converted
   automatically to RACF vocabulary as appropriate.

   An example using all three of the above extensions might be:

      SET PROTECT WYL.GN.OME.TEST.* FOR TESTGRP ALTER
      (where TESTGRP is a valid RACF group name owned by account
      GN.OME)

3. A dataset profile will be automatically removed whenever it is fully
   qualified (i.e. has no "*" or "%" wildcard characters in its name),
   and the corresponding dataset is scratched.  To prevent the automatic
   removal of a dataset profile, either add an "*" at the end of the
   profile name which makes it no longer fully qualified, or specify
   RETAIN on the SCRATCH command which will prevent the removal of the
   corresponding fully qualified profile if the profile exists.  Note
   that the above applies only to scratching done via Wylbur.  If the
   scratching is done in the batch via JCL (DISP=(OLD,DELETE)) or via
   a program (IEHPROGM or IDCAMS) then the profile will be kept.

4. RACF allows a user to create and maintain his/her own groups and then
   protect datasets so that one or more groups and/or accounts can
   have access to a set of user datasets.  By means of connecting and
   disconnecting accounts to the group, a group owner can control who
   has access to various datasets.  Type HELP RACF for further inform-
   ation.

   When a new group is created, a profile entry in the RACF database
   is generated.  This profile may then control access to various RACF
   defined resources.  The only currently defined RACF resources are
   Wylbur and VSAM dataset resources.

   Due to RACF's requirement that all group names must be unique,
   Stanford has adopted a first-come first-serve reservation system.
   There is an 8 character limit on group names.  To reserve a name,
   issue the RACF ADDGROUP command.  Your request will be processed
   and you will be notified within 24 hours that the name you picked
   is yours.  Once you have been notified, you can begin to use the
   name in SET PROTECT commands.

5. Your account default profile will protect all disk datasets owned
   by your account unless there is a more specific profile which
   protects it.

   You can change your account default whenever you wish.  To do this,
   issue the command:

      SET PROTECT DEFAULT FOR ...

   To see what your current default looks like, issue the command:

      SHOW PROTECT DEFAULT

6. Three new command options are available to help manage your security
   needs.

   SHOW PROTECT ALL provides a listing of all your profiles and datasets
   and how each dataset is currently protected.

   SHOW PROTECT profilename WITH DSN is like the above except that
   instead of listing all profiles and associated datasets, this
   form of the command lists only a single profile and its associated
   datasets.  This option executes somewhat faster and costs less
   than the ALL option described above.

   The RACF command provides a number of RACF group related functions.
   It can create, maintain and list membership in RACF groups owned
   by the user.

   All of the above commands have Wylbur HELP associated with them.

7. The number of accounts that can be included in a single group
   is greatly increased.  The magic number is about 2800.

8. There is a much improved access logging facility available in the
   new environment.  It is now possible to specify five different
   logging levels and have log records shipped to an account of your
   choice via electronic mail.  The five logging levels are:

   NONE    - turn off all logging.
   PROTECT - log only the SET PROTECT commands
   FAILURE - log all access failures (plus SET PROTECT commands)
   WRITE   - log all successful writes (plus updates and scratches)
             plus all failures and SET PROTECT commands
   ALL     - log all read accesses in addition to the above.

   The default for most accounts is LOG NONE.  For accounts that are
   considered "sensitive" the default is LOG FAILURE.  Unless otherwise
   specified, the log records will be shipped to the account that
   issues the SET PROTECT ... LOG ... command.  Log records are
   shipped once per day early in the morning.



NON-TRANSPARENCIES

1. Three options on the SET PROTECT command either won't be allowed
   or will work differently in the RACF environment.  The three
   options are:

   PASSWORD - Datasets currently protected with PASSWORD access will
   be converted to READ access and the PASSWORD access option will be
   withdrawn.  Currently, PASSWORD access means that those with this
   access may read the dataset and may write the dataset if they know
   the password to the owning account.  Currently, all external
   accounts have GROUP PASSWORD as the account default.  After
   conversion, PASSWORD access will disappear, and anyone with read
   access to a dataset will be able to write it if they can supply the
   password.

   EXTEND - This function is not supported by RACF.  EXTEND allows the
   dataset owner to give another account the authority to extend
   additional access to a dataset.  There are only a small number of
   datasets that use this capability.  Alternatives are being substi-
   tuted for each existing instance.

   FILEMASK - This function is not supported by RACF.  Again, there
   are only a small number of datasets that use this capability.
   FILEMASK allows you to limit all access to a dataset including your
   own access.  It is used, for example, to protect a dataset from
   accidental erasure or from being inadvertently changed.


2. Access levels will be slightly redefined as indicated in this table:

   Old Datset Protection            RACF Access Levels (see note below)
   -------------------------------  ---------------------------------
   None                             NONE

   Read                             READ

   Update, append                   UPDATE

   Password                         READ

   Write                            ALTER

   Log - all                        Log all successful or unsuccessful
                                    accesses at any level.  In addition
                                    all SET PROTECT commands for the
                                    specified profilename will be logged.

   Log - write                      Log all successful or unsuccessful
                                    UPDATE or ALTER accesses.  SET
                                    PROTECT commands will also be logged.

   Log - protect                    Logs all SET PROTECT commands.

   Log - none                       Turns logging off.

   Note:     - Definition of RACF access levels:

     NONE    - no access.
     READ    - authority to open a data set for read purposes.
               In addition datasets protected by READ may be written
               or scratched if the owner's password can be provided.
     UPDATE  - at this time UPDATE access is identical to READ access.
     CONTROL - equivalent to the VSAM CONTROL password.
     ALTER   - authority to read, write, scratch, rename, allocate
               new datasets that will be covered by that profile.


3. Under RACF, the most specific protection takes precedence.  Under
   the former access and security system, the least specific took
   precedence.  For example, suppose that dataset WYL.gg.uuu.dsname is
   protected with group gg update and account gg.xxx read.  In the
   former system, account gg.xxx could update the dataset since it was
   part of group gg.  Under RACF, all accounts in group gg will be able
   to write the dataset except account gg.xxx which will only be able to
   read the dataset (unless the password is known).

4. The SET and SHOW PROTECT commands have been rewritten as
   Extended EXECs.  Therefore, when these commands are executed they
   may run more slowly (especially with the ALL option) and will be
   more expensive.  A typical SHO PROTECT dsname command will cost
   about $.30 while a SHO PROTECT ALL command will cost upwards of
   $1.00 depending on the number of profiles and datasets.  A typical
   SET PROTECT command will cost about $.50

5. Most SET PROTECT commands issued from an EXEC program or a BATWYL
   program should be removed.  Unlike the former access and security
   system, the new system only requires that the SET PROTECT command
   be issued once in most cases.  In the former system when a dataset
   was scratched its protection was also scratched.  Then, when a
   dataset was recreated with the same name a new SET PROTECT needed
   to be issued.  In the new system when a dataset is scratched, the
   profile will only be deleted if the profile is fully qualified (no
   wildcards) unless the RETAIN option is specified on the SCRATCH
   command.  If it is protected by a profile that has a wildcard, then
   the profile will remain.  For example, suppose you have a dataset
   call TESTDAY1 and it is protected by the TEST* profile.  When
   TESTDAY1 is scratched, profile TEST* remains.  If the profile is
   also called TESTDAY1 then when one issues the SCRATCH TESTDAY1
   command then both the dataset and its profile will be scratched.
   If instead one issues the SCRATCH TESTDAY1 RETAIN command, the
   dataset will be scratched, but the profile will be retained.

6. The output format of the SHOW PROTECT command is changing
   slightly.  Any automatic processing of DUMP PROTECT output will
   need to be modified to understand the new format.  The old format
   looks like:

   ....v....1....v....2....v
   WYL.GG.UUU.LIB Data Set Permits:
   GG.XXX - UPDATE
   AA.YYY - READ
   CC.ZZZ - ALTER

   or:

   WYL.GG.UUU.LIB not on PUBnnn

   The new format looks like:

   ....v....1....v....2....v
   Profile: VSAM.GG.UUU.SY.*
    Log   : FAILURE
    Notify: GG.UUU
            TEST      READ
            MAINT     READ
            AA.XYZ    ALTER

      The "Log   :" line indicates the log level (PROTECT, FAILURE,
      WRITE, or ALL) in effect for the preceding profile.

      The "To  :" line indicates which account will receive log records.

      NOTE: Neither the "Log   :" line nor the "Notify:" line will appear
      if the log level is NONE.

   or:

   Profile: - ERROR -  NO CORRESPONDING PROFILE FOUND
      No non-owner accesses allowed

   or:

   Nofile access not permitted

7. It is no longer possible to SHOW PROTECT for a profile or dataset
   owned by another account unless you are in the access list with at
   least READ access.  If the access rule is PUBLIC, then everyone can
   see the access rules unless specifically excluded.  E.G. if a profile
   has PUBLIC READ and GG$UUU NONE, then account GG$UUU gets a "Profile
   access not permitted" message.

8. New messages will appear in job output.  RACF messages all have
   an ICH prefix.  Of particular note is ICH70001I, which identifies
   the last access for an account.  ICH408I messages are issued when
   an account doesn't have sufficient access authority for a
   particular dataset. An example of a typical insufficient access
   authority message is as follows:

   15.14.54 JOB 5914  ICH408I USER(GG$UUU  ) GROUP(GG      )
                                             NAME(####################)
                        VAIS.GE.MVS.M4LIB CL(DATASET ) VOL(VSAM02)
                        INSUFFICIENT ACCESS AUTHORITY
                        FROM GE$MVS.VAIS.GE.MVS.M4LIB* (G)
                        ACCESS INTENT(READ   )  ACCESS ALLOWED(NONE   )

   In this example account GG$UUU attempted to READ the VAIS.GE.MVS.
   M4LIB, but was not authorized to do so.

   If the requested read should be allowed in the future, the owner of
   the dataset (i.e. GE$MVS in this case) must grant the proper level
   of authority by either requesting that the account (GG$UUU) be added
   to a RACF group that has READ authority to this dataset, or by
   permitting the single account to READ the dataset directly.

9. The result of a SET PROTECT command will not immediately take
   effect in session memory.  Even though the RACF database will be
   updated immediately, the session memory will not be refreshed
   until the next logon.  This may cause temporary confusion.  For
   example, all batch accesses will work immediately according to
   to any new profile, but Wylbur access won't.  This will only be
   a problem when two accounts are involved since the owner account
   always has ALTER access to his/her own datasets.

   When account A sets protection on a profile so that account B can
   read a dataset owned by account A, account B must logon before
   that access will be granted from Wylbur.
10. The protection subparameters of the LABEL parameter in the JCL
   will be ignored by RACF.  The protection subparameter will no
   longer establish the disk dataset protection setting.  Only the RACF
   dataset profiles will do that.  While the protection subparameters
   will not currently cause a JCL error, they should probably be
   removed since they will give the reader the false impression that a
   dataset is being protected in a particular way and could be very
   misleading.  At the time of the WYLBUR/RACF conversion, all
   existing datasets that were created via LABEL parameters will have
   RACF profiles created.

11. Use of the OSRENAME command may change the way a dataset is
   protected.  Unless the old and new names are protected by the
   same profile, the profile which matches the new name will be
   the one used to protect the dataset.

12. The format of requested log records is changing slightly to
  accomodate the profile name in addition to the dataset name.  If
  log records are being automatically processed, this may be
  important, otherwise probably not.  At present there are only
  about two dozen accounts which have requested access logging for
  their datasets.  Only those two dozen accounts are impacted by this
  non-transparency and are being contacted individually about this
  change.

13. UTIL SHOWPROT no longer reflects how datasets are being protected.
   While that program still works, it reports protection settings that
   existed at the time of the conversion and not necessarily what the
   current protection settings are.  Use SHOW PROTECT ALL instead.

14. Since it is possible to have multiple datasets with the same name
   (only one of which is catalogued), it is currently possible for each
   to have different protections.  This is not possible with RACF.
   Thus, once RACF begins to protect uncatalogued datasets, their new
   protection may be tighter or looser than intended.  It is highly
   recommended that all uncatalogued datasets be either scratched or
   renamed (and catalogued).  A dataset called WYL.GA.PUB.DUPDSNS
   contains a list of all duplicate dataset names.  Those entries
   with an '*' are the catalogued versions.  The listing is refreshed
   every Monday at 5 a.m.

15. Programs that read VSAM datasets via the ISAM interface program will
   experience various system abend codes when access is denied to the
   VSAM dataset.  Typical system codes will be 0C1, 0C7 and possibly
   others.  The ISAM interface does not test the code that RACF returns
   when access is denied and thus allows the program to continue
   executing with no data in the buffer.  Unpredictable results may
   occur.  The way around this problem is to recode VSAM I/O using
   native VSAM commands and to remove dependence on the ISAM interface.

16. The undocumented SET option (which is used to SET PREFIX) is no
   longer supported for the SET PROTECT command.

