options: unn ind 7 form bond marker *
WYL.GA.DOC#SECURITY PUBLIC                  Last Updated: 4/18/88

                     Information Security Awareness

The purpose of this document is to highlight common security weaknesses
and discuss simple techniques for improving information security.

For information on using RACF (Resource Access Control Facility) please
read DOC#PROTECT PUB.

This document has been adapted to the Stanford environment from the
San Francisco Bay Area Chapter of the Information Systems Security
Association Employee Awareness Handbook Project.

As a Stanford employee, you have been trusted with University inform-
ation.  With this trust comes the responsibility and obligation to
ensure that the information is used only for its intended business
purposes.  The responsibility is great.  We use information on a
day-to-day basis that could be useful to people for whom access to
this information is not part of their job responsibility.

This document describes what you need to know to be an active partic-
ipant in Stanford's successful information security program.

<.b+>What's the big deal about security?  I don't work with computers.<.b->

Information is one of our most valuable assets and needs to be protected
from loss, unauthorized changes, disclosure and errors.  It appears in
many forms, such as:

   - Computer records.
   - Personal computer records.
   - Word processing documents.
   - Letters and memos.
   - Paper reports.
   - Diskettes.
   - Microfilm and microfiche.
   - Conversation.

<.b+>Why should I be concerned about security?<.b->

The information you use every day must be protected.  Whether you work
with paper records or a personal computer, or spend most of your day
on the phone, you are part of Stanford's information security program.

<.b+>What's in it for me?<.b->

A lot.  By preventing errors, security makes your job easier because
you won't have to spend time fixing mistakes.  Good security helps to
keep your department healthy by ensuring that the information you work
with is accurate.  Incorrect data can cause you department to
misrepresent critical information.  If that were to happen, your job
could be affected.

<.b+>To me security means controls and controls are inconvenient.<.b->

Controls are needed to make sure each person is accountable for his
or her own actions.  Controls protect the honest user from unwarranted
suspicion.  Without accountability, all are equally suspect when
something bad happens.

Problems with information are usually caused by honest errors or
omissions.  Controls help identify those who need help and limit
the damage their mistakes can cause.

<.b+>If we didn't have controls, what could happen?<.b->

Information is an asset and the loss of information can cost time and
money.  Information which is incorrect can lead to all kinds of trouble.
Here are a few of the things which could result from poor security:

   - Information could be lost costing Stanford money to recreate
     that information.

   - Inaccurate information could be sent outside the University and
     could result in legal action if the data is not auditable.

   - Management could make a bad decision based upon incorrect or
     incomplete information.

   - Disclosing confidential information is a breach of the federal
     privacy laws.  Any documents with student, faculty, staff or
     patient names or accounts numbers on them should be treated as
     confidential information.

<.b+>Are there legal reason for protecting Stanford's information?<.b->

Yes.  There are federal and state laws which make you legally responsible
to be sure information is correct and used appropriately.  These laws:

   - Protect a person's right to privacy.
   - Prohibit violations of copyrights, patents and trade secrets.
   - Prohibit unauthorized computer access.
   - Protect other personal and University assets.

<.b+>How can I protect the information in my work area?<.b->

We become careless about the information in our work area because we
all have authorized access to it.  But it's important to prevent
access by unauthorized visitors:

   - Lock sensitive documents in a cabinet or drawer.
   - Keep keys hidden.
   - Don't discuss sensitive information in areas where it can be
     overheard.
   - Establish a need to know before discussing information with
     other workers.
   - Label sensitive documents appropriately.
   - Ask people who are unknown to you if you can help them.  Ask for
     their names and whom they wish to visit.

<.b+>But some visitors are O.K., right?<.b->

Yes, but that doesn't mean you should let them see information.  Anyone
not currently working in your department is a visitor.  This includes:

   - former employees.
   - sales people.
   - clients or customers.

<.b+>How do I handle questions from outside people?<.b->

You may come into contact with a number of outside people from time
to time.  How you handle them depends upon who they are.  Here are
some suggestions:

   - Refer any request from the media (reporters) to the appropriate
     manager in your department or refer them to the Public Affairs
     Office (3-2862).

   - When asked to complete a survey or questionnaire find out who
     the sponsor is, the purpose of the survey and what benefit it
     will be to Stanford for you to participate.  If in doubt, discuss
     with your management.

   - If you receive calls from employment search companies or vendors
     asking for information or names and phone numbers of other
     employees, use care.  Many employees don't want to be bothered by
     endless calls from vendors or employment search companies.  If
     you do make a referral, make sure that the person knows that you
     were the one who provided the inquirer with his/her name.  If you
     are not willing to do this, then you shouldn't be giving other
     names and phone numbers in the first place.

<.b+>What about other phone calls?<.b->

When speaking on the phone, you could easily be fooled into thinking
you are talking to a person with a real need for some facts.  Be
careful not to give out valuable information to the wrong person.  Here
are some points to remember:

   - Verify the identity of the caller.  If you can't do this by asking
     some key question, then tell the caller, "I will need to call you
     back on this."
   - Verify the caller's need to know the requested information.
   - Be careful not to give out unnecessary information.

<.b+>What do I do when I want to get rid of sensitive documents?<.b->

Here are a few ways to reduce the security risks associated with
disposing of sensitive documents:

   - Separate documents into two types.  Those that contain confidential
     information and those that don't.  Non-confidential documents
     should simply be recycled.

   - Shred output if you have access to a shredder.

   - Recycle using one of the locked dumpsters.

   - Take sensitive output home and burn it or otherwise destroy it.

   - Age it.  The older the information, the less value it has.

   - Mix it up or destroy in pieces.  Incomplete information has less
     value.

   - Consider not printing it at all.  Can you manage the information
     using online tools?  Is microfiche an option?

   - Consider disguising the more sensitive information prior to
     printing it.  For example, you might change all name fields to
     x's if you can still make use of the information in this form.

   - Erase information on electronic media when it is ready for
     disposition.  Deleting a file is not the same as erasing it.
     Erasing means reformating a disk or overwriting the file with
     zeroes or some other character; deleting it simply makes the
     space available for rewriting.  Many file recovery techniques
     depend upon this fact to recover a deleted file.

<.b+>Isn't my personal computer important, too?<.b->

Yes.  Here are some of the things you can do to protect it:

   - Make sure that anyone you see using a personal computer or
     terminal in your work area is authorized to do so.

   - Be sure to either sign off or lock the screen when you leave,
     even if you plan to return in just a minute.

   - Use a carbide steel etching pen to etch "Prop. of Stanford Univ."
     onto your PC, your monitor casing, your keyboard and any other
     peripherals connected to your PC (e.g. disk drives, printers).
     It is also a good idea to etch your department name.  You may
     borrow an etching pen from the Information Security Office by
     calling (415) 723-9797.

<.b+>Why should I protect my password?<.b->

Your password gives you access and is for your personal use.  You are
responsible for any access made under your user ID and password.

   - Change your password periodically.
   - Change your password immediately if it becomes known to others.
   - Choose hard to guess passwords.
   - Enter your password in private.
   - Log off each session using the normal logoff command.  Don't
     simply turn the machine off.

<.b+>I can choose my own password, but I find it really hard to think of new
passwords every time I choose one. How do I go about choosing my password?<.b->

The whole idea of a password is to keep someone else from using your
user ID.  Some passwords are easy to guess, especially if the other
person knows you.

Here are some passwords to AVOID.

   - your name, nickname, initials.
   - your user identification code.
   - dates, especially birthdates or current dates (e.g. FEB88 or 88BEF).
   - consecutive keys on a keyboard, e.g. QWERTY.
   - all the same character, e.g. CCCCCCC or 7777777.
   - your telephone number, employee number, social security number.

A good password should be both hard to guess and easy for you to
remember.  Never write passwords down.  Here are a few suggestions
for picking passwords:

   - Mix digits with a word.  The digits can be intermixed between
     the letters of the word and the word can even be scrambled.
     e.g. S8K7I6N5 or RED8WOOD
   - Take the first or last letters for each word of a phrase, e.g.
     IWADASN (It Was A Dark And Stormy Night) or EDESOEFT (wE holD
     thesE truthS tO bE selF evidenT).
   - Remove all vowels from a common word or short phrase, e.g.
     TPSCRT (ToP SeCReT).
   - Longer passwords are better than shorter ones.

Just a reminder, don't use any of these examples!  Many people will
be reading this document!

<.b+>What must I do to protect information at home?<.b->

The same rules apply at both work and home.  Make sure you know the
classification of the information and the appropriate controls.  Be
sure that you:

   - Lock up sensitive information when it is not in use.
   - Make backup copies and protect them the same as the originals.
   - Protect the information from damage and destruction.
   - Protect sensitive information from casual observation by others.

<.b+>Can I make a copy of Stanford created software to use on my
home computer?<.b->

That depends on the software.  Some software may be freely copied
(e.g. SAMSON) and others is fully protected by copyright.  Most
software will have some statement regarding its non-Stanford use.
When in doubt, don't copy!  Here are some guidelines for copying
software:

   - Get your manager's approval before copying any software.
   - Although you may have purchased the software, what you really
     buy with most packages is a license to use the software on one
     machine.
   - Unauthorized copying of software is a violation of the U.S.
     Copyright Law.  It is critical that you check the terms of your
     license to make sure you are not violating the agreement with
     the vendor.
   - Some agreements with software vendors may allow copying if the
     work is business related.  Check with your manager to see if this
     applies.

<.b+>But I can copy the software I wrote, can't I?<.b->

That depends.  It doesn't belong to you if:

   - you used Stanford equipment to develop it.
   - you developed it on behalf of Stanford.
   - you developed it on Stanford time regardless of what equipment
     you used.

<.b+>May I copy software from another department to use on my personal
computer?<.b->

Software written by Stanford employees that belongs to your department
may be shared with other employees with your manager's permission.

Copying proprietary software is subject to the terms of the licensing
agreement.  REMEMBER, WHEN IN DOUBT, DON'T COPY!

<.b+> O.K. I won't copy any software without checking.  But shouldn't I make
copies of information?<.b->

Yes.  Data and other forms of important information should be duplicated.
Making duplicate copies can be a real time saver if something should
happen to your reports, diskettes or files.  Your manager should be
able to give you some guidance as to exactly what needs to be duplicated.
Generally, information should be duplicated if:

   - You could not afford to lose it.
   - It would cost too much to recreate it.
   - It would take too much time to recreate it.

<.b+>What are good backup procedures?<.b->

Remember that the purpose of an extra copy is to replace the main copy
if something happens to the first copy.  Here are some important points
to remember:

   - Make an extra copy of the information for safety.  It is more
     important to copy information on diskettes than to keep extra
     paper copies.  Reports and paper documents can usually be
     recreated from diskettes.

   - Make an extra copy of the information whenever it has been
     changed enough to require a fresh copy.  For some information,
     you may need to make a new copy every day or even every hour.

   - You may want to send your extra copy out of your building as a
     protection against an office fire.  If you regularly exchange
     information with another office, you might want to ask them to
     store reports or diskettes for you, too.

   - In special cases, make <.u+>two<.u-> extra copies: one to keep in your
     office and one to send out of the building.

   - If the original becomes damaged, make a new backup from the first
     backup before using.

<.b>It seems like Stanford is really serious abut information?  But aren't
people important, too?<.b->

You are Stanford's most valuable asset.  The security and safety of
all employees is very important.  Familiarize yourself with Stanford's
safety program and emergency procedures.  Contact the Health and
Safety Office (phone: 3-0448, mail stop 8007) for further information.
Knowing what to do in an emergency could protect a most valuable asset
- you!

As you can see, there are a lot of things which you can do to protect
information in all its many forms.  The suggestions in this document
are for you to use every day to make Stanford information more secure.

<.b+>What is the key to information security?<.b->

People.  Aware employees.  You.
