DOC#SELFSERV PUBLIC                         Latest update:  05/15/85
Information Technology Services             Creation date:  03/29/85
Stanford University                         Length:        113 lines

                   Using the Self-Service Printer

This handout explains how to use the self-service Xerox 2700 printer
in the User Equipment Room of Forsythe Hall.  The 2700 prints in
both portrait and landscape modes (see "Page Orientation," below) on
8-1/2- by 11-inch bond paper.  You may also select several different
type faces for printing (see "Character Sets").

                         Basic Instructions

To print a job on the 2700, add this option to your PRINT or RUN
command:

   DEST=SELF

Printing costs 7 cents a page.  The line limit for a single job is
2,000 lines (approximately 33 pages of 60 lines each).

The 2700 can print in either portrait or landscape mode.  Portrait
mode means on a vertical page 8-1/2 inches wide and 11 inches high.
(This document is printed in portrait mode.) Landscape mode means on
a horizontal page 11 inches wide and 8-1/2 inches high.  For WYLBUR
editing and document preparation, the 2700 prints in portrait mode
like other ITS page-mode printers.  When printing output from batch
jobs, the batch default generally produces the same orientation as
if the job had been printed on one of the other printers.

Further instructions about using the 2700 printer follow.

                          Page Orientation

The default page orientation for WYLBUR print jobs is portrait mode
(vertical page, 10 characters per inch, up to 85 characters per
line, 60 lines per page).  To secure landscape printing (horizontal
page, 13.6 characters per inch, up to 132 characters per line, 60
lines per page) for a WYLBUR print job, include the LANDSCAPE option
in your PRINT command or specify a PFORMAT beginning with the letter
"L" (LAND, L132, or L150).  The job log, system messages, and
separator pages are always printed in landscape mode.

Batch job output is printed in landscape mode unless you specify one
of the standard portrait mode forms codes (9511, BOND, 3HOL, or
BLUE).  This does NOT mean that these forms will be used; the code
simply alerts the system to use the portrait mode.  All jobs on the
2700 are printed on 8-1/2- by 11-inch white bond, regardless of the
forms code specified.

If you specify a PFORMAT option in your Job Control Language (JCL),
it will override the forms code default.  Output is printed in
landscape mode if the PFORMAT begins with the letter "L" (LAND,
L132, or L150); otherwise the output is printed in portrait mode.

                           Character Sets

Only one character set is available for landscape mode.  In portrait
mode, however, you can use the standard CHARS option to specify a
character set other than the default.  Character sets are designated
by names consisting of two letters and two digits.  The letters
indicate the font or type face; the digits indicate pitch.  Thus
CU10 stands for Courier 10-pitch (10 characters to the inch) type,
which is the default for portrait mode.

In landscape mode, the only character set is the standard 13-pitch
font.

In portrait mode, five fonts are available.  They are selected as
follows:

    CHARS=CU10 - Selects the default, a 10-pitch Courier-style font
    CHARS=IT10 - Selects a 10-pitch Courier-style italic set
    CHARS=BD10 - Selects a 10-pitch Courier-style bold character set
    CHARS=CU12 - Selects a 12-pitch Courier-style font
    CHARS=BD12 - Selects a 12-pitch Courier-style bold character set

If you specify any 10-pitch character set not listed above, your
printing will be done using the default, CU10; if you specify a
12-pitch set not listed above, your printing will be done with CU12.

The Courier-style character sets are the Xerox equivalents of the
IBM Courier (typewriter-style) character sets.  A "standard"
Courier-style character set is a roman (nonitalic) type face.  A
more complete set of CHARS options may be available in the future.

Multiple character sets can be used in the same way they are used on
the 3800 and 9700 printers, with the standard IBM Table Reference
Character (TRC) and the CHARS option to specify the character sets.

Only the characters that appear on your keyboard are available.
(This means that such characters as superscripts are not available.)

                        Other Print Options

The standard WYLBUR print options (NUMBERED, UNNUMBERED, NONUMBERED,
INDENT, COPIES, DOCUMENT, MARKER, LANDSCAPE, and so forth) work the
same way as on our other printers.

The FORMS option is ignored, except to set the default print
orientation for batch job output (see "PAGE ORIENTATION," above).
The FCB option is ignored; the 2700 is designed to print 60 lines
per page in either orientation.  FLASH is also ignored.

If you are familiar with the text-formatting program SCRIPT, you may
use SCRIPT commands to have all or parts of your text underlined or
printed in bold or italic characters on the 2700 printer.  Such
printing requires a special SCRIPT postprocessor that is initiated
with a public EXEC file.  Instructions for using the postprocessor
are in the "Update Package for Using Script," dated February 1985.
They are also available online if you type the command UTIL SCRIPTMG
and ask for instructions at the first prompt.
