This is DOC#SR PUBLIC.                           Revision 1, 9/26/88


                          Scroll & Recall
                    (An IBM PC utility program)


Scroll & Recall, a program for the IBM PC created by Opt-Tech Data
Processing, is available to the Stanford community through a site
license obtained by the Stanford Data Center.  Scroll & Recall
stores screen data in a buffer in main memory as it scrolls off your
terminal screen.  Using various key sequences, you can scroll back
to previous data as needed.  You can also save the contents of the
buffer to a DOS file, providing a way to store a copy of your
computer session permanently.  The program also includes a technique
for "recalling" DOS commands you have issued in your session, either
for re-issuing as they are, or for editing into different commands
for issuing.

This documentation prepared by the Stanford Data Center is
available in the online file DOC#SR PUBLIC at Forsythe and the
anonymous ftp file pub/pc/sr.doc on Lindy.  It includes basic
instructions for using Scroll & Recall, as well as instructions for
downloading the program to a PC.


* Command Summary                           (Note: Details below)

To use the Scroll & Recall program, you first load it using the SR
command; the program then begins storing your session activity.

To activate scrolling when you want to see the stored screen data,
you first press Ctrl-Space and then use Up and Down arrow and "Pg"
keys to move up and down through the stored data.  Press Escape to
return to your current work position.

You can save the current contents of the scroll buffer in a DOS
file by issuing the micro command S-SAVE.

To "recall" previous DOS commands, use the Up and Down arrow keys,
which will bring commands to the command line, where you can
re-issue them or edit them into different commands.

These commands and key sequences are described in more detail below.


* Downloading a copy of Scroll & Recall

To get a copy of Scroll & Recall for your use:

- If you are on the Forsythe computer using Samson, issue the
  command UTIL GETSCROLL, which will save the program on your
  current disk drive, under the names "SR.COM" and "S-SAVE.COM".

- If your PC is directly connected to SUNet, the files are also
  available via anonymous ftp from Lindy.  The following sequence
  demonstrates a session where a user "anonymously ftps" the
  SR.COM file from Lindy.  (The exact dialog will depend on the
  file transfer package you are using on your PC.)

         myhost> ftp lindy
         Connected to lindy.stanford.edu.
         220 lindy FTP server (SunOS 4.0) ready.
         Name (lindy:joeuser): anonymous
         331 Guest login ok, send ident as password.
         Password:    <-- any answer is acceptable here
         230 Guest login ok, access restrictions apply.
         ftp> binary
         200 Type set to I.
         ftp> get
         (remote-file) pub/pc/sr.com
         (local file) sr.com
         ftp> quit
         221 Goodbye.
         myhost>


* Loading "Scroll and Recall" for Use

To load the program, issue the SR command at the DOS prompt.  From
within Samson, you can issue it by preceding the command with the
MICRO prefix, which causes the command to be passed to DOS for
execution.

The syntax of the SR command is:

     SR [scroll-pages, recall-bytes]

scroll-pages    the number of Screen-pages that you want Scroll &
                Recall to save in memory.  A screen page holds 25
                lines of information and takes 2000 bytes of memory.
                The default, if not specified, is 4 pages.  The
                maximum is 27.  Specifying 0 (zero) will prevent the
                "Scroll" part of the program from being loaded.

recall-bytes    the number of bytes that you want Scroll & Recall to
                save in memory for DOS commands.  The default is
                500.  The maximum is 32,000.  The minimum is 255,
                except that 0 (zero) can be specified to prevent the
                "Recall" part of the program from being loaded.

Note that the total memory allocation can be no more than 56,000
bytes.  If more than that amount is requested, the Recall bytes are
allocated first, with the remainder of the available space going to
Screen-pages.

If you plan to use Scroll & Recall regularly, you may want to add
the SR command to your AUTOEXEC.BAT file, so that it will start
running automatically each time you turn on your computer.


* Using "Scroll & Recall" for Scrolling

When the Scroll part of the SR program is running (having been
invoked with the SR command described above), you can page back
through data that has scrolled off the top of the display screen,
going back a line or a screenful (page) at a time.

To scroll back, first press Ctrl-Space -- that is, hold down the
Control key (Ctrl) and press the Space bar.  A line number (000)
will appear in the lower right corner of your screen, indicating
how many lines back you have gone into the data storage.

To move back through the stored data, use one or more of the
following key sequences:

 Key           Function
 -----------   ----------------------------------------------------
 Up arrow      back 1 line at a time into the stored data

 Down arrow    forward 1 line at a time

 Pg Up         back 1 page at a time (25 lines)

 Pg Down       forward 1 page at a time

 Home          back to the top (the beginning) of the stored data

 End           forward to the end of the stored data (usually, your
                  position when you pressed Ctrl-Space)

 Escape        end scrolling; return to your position when you
                  pressed CTRL-Space

 Other keys    no effect, except for a "help" message reminding
                  you which keys have an effect

In regard to full-screen programs like Page WYLBUR and Prism, Scroll
& Recall will not by default save the screens, as it will for
line-by-line work.  However, by pressing Ctrl-Return, you can
explicitly request that Scroll & Recall save the current screen,
whether in full-screen or line-by-line.

Note that Scroll & Recall saves only the data -- it does not save
any display characteristics of the data, such as reverse video,
color information, alternate characters, etc.


* Using S-SAVE to Save the Data as a DOS file

At any time after invoking the SR command, you can issue the
command S-SAVE to save the current contents of the SR buffer as a
DOS file.  (In Samson, you can issue the command MICRO S-SAVE.)
The S-SAVE program will then prompt you for a valid DOS filename.
You may include the name on the S-SAVE command to avoid being
prompted for a filename.

As noted above, remember that Scroll & Recall saves only the data,
and not any display attributes of the data.


* Using "Scroll & Recall" for Recalling DOS Commands

The recall part of Scroll & Recall continually saves your DOS
commands and the input lines to many other programs, though not
including Samson.  You can, for instance, reissue a previous DOS
command without having to retype it, or edit a previous command
before issuing it again.

To use this feature, in DOS or other programs where you may find
this works, simply press the Up arrow key to recall the previous
line from the circular buffer of saved lines.  Pressing the Down
arrow key recalls the next line.  By pressing these repeatedly, you
can move around the buffer, bringing each issued command up to the
command prompt where it can be reissued by simply pressing the
Return key.

If you need to edit the commands, the standard editing mode provides
the same command line editing of DOS.  (An advanced mode is
available by specifying the letter A as the third parameter in the
SR command, as in "SR 10,1000,A".  The advanced mode provides
command editing functions similar to those of the BASIC editor.)
Most users will find the following standard functions more than fill
their needs:

 Key         Function
 ---------   ------------------------------------------------------
 Backspace   Backspace and remove a character.
  or <-

 F1 or ->    Copy one character from the current line to display.

 F3          Copy remaining characters from current line to display.

 Del         Skip one character from the current line.

 Escape      Cancel the current line being displayed.

 F2 + char.  Copy all characters up to (but not including) the
              specified character

 F4 + char.  Skip over all characters up to (but not including)
              the specified character

 F5          Add the current line to the circular buffer, but do
              not execute it; the command can be used for further
              editing

 Insert      Allow inserting characters within a line.

 Ctrl-Del    Delete the current line from the recall buffer.


If you would like more information about Scroll & Recall, or if you
are not a member of the Stanford community and would like to
purchase a copy of Scroll & Recall, please contact Opt-Tech Data
Processing, P.O.  Box 678, Zephyr Cove, Nevada 89448, or phone
702-588-3737.
