Instructions for testing new version of SUBMIT.

1) CALL SPIRES (I've always done it with WYLBUR set)

1.5) SET NODIAG (or you will be deluged with messages)

2) SET XEQ SUBMIT PROTOCOLS NEW

3) invoke the appropriate protocol:

   all existing protocols are of the form

       ..<production-protocol-name>.NEW

   new protocols are:

     a) POST.NEW    - adds the name of a controlling "network" to the
                      posting file
     b) SCYCLE.NEW  - used to flag a network which has been previously
                      posted as Starting a maintenance CYCLE.
                      (dependent jobs will not be selected during
                       maintenance cycles)
     c) ECYCLE.NEW  - used to indicate completion of a maintenance
                      cycle and reset the access flags in the posting
                      file
     d) POST.REPORT.NEW - used to report on the status of any network
                      which has been posted regardless of whether any
                      jobs are dependent on it.

  All of the above should be invoked by typing:

    ..<protocol-name> <network-name>

  For example:

    ..POST.NEW MYNET

  would register MYNET as a controlling network.  Initial access
  status is OFF. ECYCLE must be invoked by the same person who posted
  the network before any dependent jobs can be selected.

  SCYCLE and ECYCLE may be invoked in batch thru cataloged
  procedures of the same name. The accept a symbolic parameter of
  NETWORK=<network-name>.  If not supplied the network name will
  default to the name of the job which invokes the procedure.

4) add appropriate dependencies to existing jobs or specify them
when adding new ones

   A new option, NETWORK=<network-name>, may be added to ..SUBMIT and
   ..RESUBMIT to indicate network dependency.  The only other option
   which may (and must) be specified with NETWORK is START.  The job
   should run on the first date after the start date on which the
   controlling network is flagged as accessible.
