12/03/93  Stanford Data Center UPDATE

To list the most recent article, type:  LIST 19/LAST
To list all article titles for a table of contents, type LIST '*'1
For a particular topic, type LIST 'topic'

Notices that are out-of-date can be read if you:

     CALL SPIRES
     SELECT NEWS ARCHIVE
     EXPLAIN NEWS ARCHIVE

This online data set contains useful information about Data Center
system and facilities, in addition to articles that augment items
in NEWS.  To read the items in NEWS, type the command USE NEWS
PUBLIC and then the VIEW or LIST command to read the file.


*12/04/93  HELP!  My Tape Job Got Cancelled!

The Data Center has made some changes in tape processing; see the following
article for a more general explanation of the changes.  This article is
specifically intended to help you if your tape job has failed as a result of
the changes.

On 12/04/93, we changed the unit name definitions in the system so that
UNIT=TAPE refers to a 3480 cartridge tape drive, and, T=count or TAPE=count on
a /*SETUP statement refers to cartridge (3480) devices.

Square peg in a round hole?

If your tape job was cancelled by the operator when it requested a tape mount,
with a message indicating incorrect unit type, then your old tape JCL is no
longer valid and must be changed.  The operator had to cancel your job,
because it was requesting an impossible tape mount, e.g. mounting a reel-type
tape on a cartridge-type drive.

If your JCL specifies UNIT=TAPE and requests a specific AS, AU, AX, ES, EU, or
EX series tape, it will now fail in this way.  You should change the unit name
to T6250 instead of TAPE.

Other types of failures

Jobs using the utility program IEHMOVE (such as RESTORE) will fail if the unit
name in the JCL doesn't match the one in the COPY command.  The error message
will be UNABLE TO MOUNT FROM VOLUME or UNABLE TO MOUNT TO VOLUME.  UTIL BACKUP
and UTIL RESTORE will work correctly; if you have your own RESTORE JCL, you
may need to change both the JCL and the COPY commands.  For example, if you
had

   //  EXEC  RESTORE,TAPE=AS1234

you should change the EXEC statement to be

   //  EXEC  RESTORE,TAPE=AS1234,TUNIT=T6250

and change the "FROM=TAPE" in the COPY commands to FROM=3420.

Getting Help

If you are still having trouble, type the CONSULT command to use the
Consult-by-Mail service.  While CBM queries usually don't get responded to on
weekends, we will attempt to provide same-day response to tape queries this
weekend (12/04, 12/05).  Be sure to include TAPES as the subject, and to
include output of the failed job with your query (or leave the job in output
hold).


*11/22/93  Default for Tape Service Changing from Reel to Cartridge

The Data Center is making some fundamental changes in tape
processing and related service offerings.  Tape related services are
labor-intensive; to hold the line on costs for these services, the
SDC needs to streamline and optimize services wherever possible.
The planned changes will reduce costs; it will simplify user
interactions with SDC; it will optimize vital resources (space and
labor) and it will reduce the risk of human error in the handling of
tape.  Additionally, as a by-product of this effort, tape-mounting
service to clients will improve.

In this project the Data Center is converting tape services from the
older 3420 tape drives (round reels) to 3480 tape cartridges (high
density, sealed media).  The transition is intended to be minimally
disruptive; however, some cases may require changes to users' JCL.

The scheduled implementation date is Saturday, December 4th.

     On 12/04/93, we will change the unit name definitions
     in the system so that UNIT=TAPE refers to a 3480
     cartridge tape drive, and, T=count or TAPE=count on a
     /*SETUP statement will refer to cartridge devices.

Impacts:

JCL that refers to tapes via the catalog will not need to be
changed.  Jobs that write on AS or ES series scratch tapes will not
need to be changed; they will now write on S-series cartridge tapes.

If current JCL refers to specific tape volumes (by coding a volume
serial in the JCL),  or if you create tape files that are read on
other machines, JCL changes may be necessary.

Effective December 4th, UNIT=TAPE will mean a cartridge tape.  Thus:

JCL changes may be needed:
<> Where "reel tapes" are required (for shipment to off-site
   computer centers or where tapes are being "imported" to our
   facility): existing JCL and Job Setup statements will need to
   specify tape reels by including:  UNIT=T1600 or UNIT=T6250.
   These will continue to indicate 3420 (round reel, 1600/6250 bpi)
   tape drives, as will T1600=count and T6250=count on a /*SETUP
   statement.
<> For jobs (a) that use external tape reels (EX, AX series), (b)
   for other jobs that refer to reel tape volumes (e.g. AS, ES
   series) instead of using the catalog, and (c) for jobs that
   create tape reels that must be read by another system: these must
   be modified to use an appropriate unit name (such as T6250,T1600)
   before the conversion date.

These changes may be made at any time before the conversion date
without affecting your tape jobs.

No JCL changes are needed:
<> Where tape jobs create new tape files using UNIT=TAPE.  However,
   after 12/04/93, these files will be written on tape cartridges.
<> Where jobs read tape files "by catalog reference". The
   catalog entry contains the actual unit-type and either reels or
   cartridges will be read based on the catalog entry. (see note
   below on the system change that will support transition period)

If you have any questions, or if you need additional information or
assistance, please contact OTS at 3-2775 or by E-Mail at GR.OTS.  If
you have problems with making the required changes by the
12/04/93 date, please contact OTS for assistance.


System Change to support transition period (120 days):
   Note:  During the transition period, there will be some
   cases where the existing SETUP information is ambiguous
   and/or wrong.  To minimize the impact to clients, we will
   add a feature to the system.  During the transition
   period, we will allocate both kinds of tape drives to
   such jobs, that is, the job will be released when both
   kinds of drives are available so that MVS can allocate
   them as needed.

   For example, a job that reads an old file and writes a
   new one might have

   /*SETUP T=2 INPUT=CAT OUTPUT=SCRTCH

   The first time this runs after the 12/04/93 conversion,
   it will read the 3420 tape reel, but it will write a 3480
   tape cartridge.  The catalog will contain the appropriate
   unit-type for new tape and the next processing. The system
   - in this kind of situation - will release the job when it has
   two tape reel devices and two tape cartridge devices available.


*10/11/93  MacSamson 4.03 Now Available

As announced in online News, an upgrade of MacSamson, the Data Center's
terminal-emulation program from Macintosh computers, is now available.  Version
4.03 is a very minor maintenance upgrade that corrects several minor problems
that users have found since the release of MacSamson 4.0 last year.

We always recommend that you have the latest version of MacSamson; however,
unless you have seen any of the problems that the new version fixes, you will
find version 4.03 is not appreciably different from 4.0.

To install MacSamson 4.03 if you have MacSamson 4.01 or 4.02, simply replace
that version of MacSamson with the new one, throwing the old one away.  You can
get MacSamson 4.03 from the same source that gave you MacSamson 4.01 or 4.02.
These sources include:

 - through the UTIL GETSAM command, which downloads the program to your Mac.
   (This is available only if you already use MacSamson, and is recommended
   only if you are connected to Forsythe via SUNet; otherwise, it takes 20
   minutes or more.)

 - through AppleShare.  Connect through this path:  1) Open the Chooser;
   2) Click on AppleShare; 3) Click on the Stanford zone; 4) Double-click on
   the Computing server; 5) Register as a guest user; 6) Select the Computing
   Distribution volume; 7) When that volume appears on your desktop,
   double-click on it to open it; 8) Open the folder Mac Software & Docs, then
   the folder MacStanford, then the folder Supported Software, then the folder
   MacSamson 4.03 and finally the folder MacSamson Application;  9) Drag the
   MacSamson and MacSamson ReadMe files to your hard disk;  10) Open the
   MacSamson ReadMe file for installation help.

 - through FTP. Connect through this path: 1) Start your FTP program;
   2) Connect to NetServer.Stanford.EDU as user anonymous (please give your
   Forsythe address -- userid@Forsythe or gg.uuu@Forsythe -- as the password);
   3) Follow this directory path to the MacSamson folder:
      apple/MacOS/MacStanford/Supported/MacSamson_4.03_STANFORD
   4) Fetch the files MacSamson_v4.03.hqx and MacSamson_Readme.txt.  If your
   FTP program doesn't take care of it automatically, be sure to convert the
   MacSamson.hqx file from BinHex in order to use it. 5) Open the MacSamson
   ReadMe file for installation help.

 - from others who already have MacSamson 4.03.  Please feel free to copy the
   MacSamson program for yourself or others; it is not copy-protected.  CLASS
   Consultants and Expert Partners are likely sources.

 - from the Data Center's Account Services office, Cypress Hall, room D13.
   Be sure to bring two blank Macintosh double-density diskettes or one
   high-density diskette to exchange.  Please use this method only if you
   can't use one of the others, to help reduce our labor to copy MacSamson
   diskettes.

In addition, wherever you get MacSamson 4.03, pick up the MacSamson ReadMe
file, which has information about the bug fixes in MacSamson 4.03.  Some of the
problems fixed involved launching from and locking Preferences files, and
changing Leland to Cardinal for the default VT100 host.  There are also many
new scripts for establishing connections to Forsythe and other SUNet hosts.

If you have questions about the new release, please contact your expert
partner, local network administrator, or Data Center consultant.


*09/23/93  PC-Samson 4.0b Now Available

As announced in online News, a new version of PC-Samson, the Data
Center's terminal-emulation program from IBM PC, PS/2 and compatible
microcomputers, is now available.  PC-Samson users who are
installing the Pathway software, or those who are using 9600 bps
modems are encouraged to upgrade to PC-Samson 4.0b.

Those connecting over SUNet may also upgrade to the Pathway package
from Wollongong, which has been licensed for use by Stanford
students, faculty and staff (under some restrictions monitored by
Networking and Communication Systems).  The Pathway package replaces
the WIN/TCP file and other TCP/IP-related files you used previously
with Samson.

 * Getting and Installing PC-Samson 4.0b

An easy way to get PC-Samson 4.0b (and Pathway if you need it) is
to pick up a copy at the Account Services Office, Room F14 in Spruce
Hall, next to Forsythe Hall.  For PC-Samson alone, please bring a
blank diskette to exchange for it.  For PC-Samson and Pathway,
please bring 7 blank diskettes for exchange.  The software is free,
and you are encouraged to share the diskettes with others.

Installation of Samson from the diskette is straightforward and
usually takes less than 15 minutes; basic instructions appear in the
README file on the PC-Samson diskette, in the PC-Samson 4.0b
Release Notes, available through PUBLISH (see the end of this
article), and the installation program itself provides much
guidance.  However, if you will be installing both PC-Samson and
Pathway, we urge you strongly to contact your local network
administrator or expert partner before installing PC-Samson 4.0b
and work with him or her.  The installation will go more smoothly if
you have assistance from someone familiar with Ethernet boards, the
NetDB file and SUNet communications in general.

To install using the Install program, insert the PC-Samson 4.0b
diskette into your A disk drive and type "A:INSTALL".  Because the
installation program not only makes copies of the needed files from
the diskettes but may want to make changes to several other files
you have, we urge you to install from the Install program rather
than by copying the files you think you need from someone else who
has already installed it.  This is especially important if the other
person's PC is configured differently from yours.

If you currently use PC-Samson and do not intend to use the Samson
over SUNet, you can download the new version onto your PC by logging
on to the Forsythe computer and typing the command UTIL GETSAM
(please do this outside of peak hours).

You can also arrange for a copy, as well as some assistance, by
contacting your expert partner, local network administrator, or
Data Center consultant.

 * Documentation and Consulting Help

Documentation currently available includes the 20-page "PC-Samson
4.0b Release Notes and User Guide", a 2-page help card called
"A Quick Guide to PC-Samson", and "The PC-Samson 4.0b Reference
Manaul".  These are available via the PUBLISH command on Forsythe.

If you have questions about the PC-Samson release, please contact
your expert partner, local network administrator, or Data Center
consultant.


