05/05/93  Stanford Data Center UPDATE

To list the most recent article, type:  LIST 19/LAST
To list all article titles for a table of contents, type LIST '*'1
For a particular topic, type LIST 'topic'

Notices that are out-of-date can be read if you:

     CALL SPIRES
     SELECT NEWS ARCHIVE
     EXPLAIN NEWS ARCHIVE

This online data set contains useful information about Data Center
system and facilities, in addition to articles that augment items
in NEWS.  To read the items in NEWS, type the command USE NEWS
PUBLIC and then the VIEW or LIST command to read the file.


*05/05/93  General Information and Schedule for Wings

<.b+>                        Wings for Wylbur <.b->


Within the next month or so, the Data Center plans to install on the
Forsythe mainframe a new file-management server called Wings.  Wings
will serve to link WYLBUR and other programs to the MVS operating
system and its file services.  The purpose of this paper is to
provide some background about Wings, to describe the few things that
may be noticeably different after it's installed, and to discuss the
proposed approach for its implementation.


<.b+><.u+>What is Wings?<.b-><.u->

Wings is a new file-access and -management server developed by the
Data Center for the Forsythe computer.  Its primary initial purpose
is to connect its clients, WYLBUR, TESTWYL and SERVWYL, to MVS for
file-service operations.  Thus, WYLBUR commands such as USE, SAVE,
PRINT FROM, LIST FROM and XCALL will go through Wings, which will
translate the request into standard MVS file-service commands.


<.b+><.u+>What does Wings mean to you? <.b-><.u->

What you've read so far is already more than most users will need to
know about Wings.  Unless you work extensively with WYLBUR data sets
or write or manage programs that work with them, you are unlikely to
be aware of Wings or of the changes that come with installing it.

If you think Wings might be relevant to you, the rest of this paper
may be useful.


<.b+><.u+>Why did we develop Wings?<.b-><.u->

The primary motivation for initiating the Wings project was to make
Wylbur more compliant with MVS services.  WYLBUR's I/O routines were
written many years ago, and have not kept pace with the numerous and
significant changes that have been made to data management by IBM
across many releases of MVS.  In fact, WYLBUR's out-of-date code has
been responsible for a number of incidents of system instability.

In addition, conversion to Wings is a required step for the Data
Center to use IBM System Managed Storage (SMS) which will allow us
to make more efficient use of the disk storage pool.  Wings is also
needed so that we can successfully upgrade Forsythe's operating
system to future versions of MVS.


<.b+><.u+>What is different about Wings?<.b-><.u->

The services and advantages that Wings provides to Data Center
clients are mostly transparent.  Wings has been running in TESTWYL
(a test version of WYLBUR) without incident for several months.
One of the advantages of Wings is that there will be even less need
for users to be aware of the volumes where WYLBUR data is stored.
Though it will not hurt to specify a volume in any command, it will
be unnecessary almost all the time.  This does mean a greater
dependence on the system catalog -- creating uncataloged data sets
will be strongly discouraged, as will creating two data sets with
the same name on separate volumes.  [Note:  This is necessary to
bring us into conformance with the IBM standard which is a
prerequisite for using IBM's automated storage management
capabilities (SMS) -- something the Data Center hopes to do in the
not too distant future.]

The non-transparent items are minor in nature and are required to
bring WYLBUR more into conformance with IBM standards.  They are:

1. WYLBUR will no longer allow any non-standard IBM names for data
   sets.  Names must start with a letter, followed by alpha-
   numerics; they cannot exceed 8 characters, unless the characters
   are separated by a period, all letters must be uppercase, etc.
   Type HELP DSNAME for the complete rules.

   Currently, WYLBUR allows non-standard names if they are enclosed
   in apostrophes or quote marks.  That will not be allowed under
   Wings, although you may enclose a standard name in quotes if you
   want.  All names, quoted or unquoted, will be forced to
   uppercase.

   (Production WYLBUR was monitored for a month, during which time
   no data set names were used that did not meet the standard
   requirements to which we are moving.)

2. When you save a new data set, WYLBUR (through Wings) will choose
   the volume where the data set is saved in this order:

     If you name a volume in the command, WYLBUR/Wings will use
        that volume.  If it can't use that volume, e.g., because
        the volume is full, it will find a public volume where there
        is room, and notify you of that location.

     If you don't name a volume, WYLBUR/Wings will use the volume
        where your LIB library is saved; this is where Wings is
        different than current WYLBUR, which will save on a volume
        specified in WYLBUR's keyword file for your account. If that
        fails, WYLBUR/Wings will then use any public volume where it
        finds space. (Same as current WYLBUR)  Again, you will be
        notified of that location.

3. Setting a volume (via the SET VOLUME command) is no longer
   meaningful in WYLBUR/Wings.   The SET VOLUME command will be
   allowed but the option will be ignored.

Further details concerning these differences are described in the
data set WYL.GQ.JNK.WINGS.DIFFS.


<.b+><.u+>What is the schedule for testing and installing Wings?<.b-><.u->

Conversion to Wings is a major change to WYLBUR though, as noted
above, primarily transparent to most users.  To assure as smooth a
transition as possible, Wings has been used for day-to-day TESTWYL
file-service work for several months - where it has performed
without incident.  Anyone who would like to try Wings before the
proposed tests can enter TESTWYL, where Wings is automatically the
default file manager.

We hope to install Wings into production Wylbur during the month of
May.  The proposed test schedule is as follows:

     TESTWYL:
        Continued regular service.

     WYLBUR:
         Saturday-Sunday, May 8,9
         Saturday-Sunday, May 15,16
         Thursday-Sunday, May 20-May 23

In order to assure stability, we plan to test and install Wings in a
phased manner as we have done with other major operating-system
components in the past.

The testing will begin with two weekend test periods during which
WYLBUR will be installed Saturday morning with Wings running.  If
any significant problems arise during Saturday or Sunday, we will
try to fix the problem quickly, or else Wings will be switched off
(this can be done dynamically and thus without system interruption).
Should this happen, we might possibly try to re-install Wings again
later in the weekend.  In any case, Wings will be switched off
early Monday morning prior to the start of morning day block.

The third week, we will install WYLBUR with Wings on Thursday
morning, during Systems time, and let it run through the weekend.
If no significant problems arise during that time, it will remain
installed on Monday morning as the new production system.

If you have questions about Wings, please contact Ron Meyer, email
Ron.Meyer@Forsythe, phone 725-2678.


