DOC#WEATHER PUBLIC                          Latest update:  06/14/85
Information Technology Services             Creation date:  06/14/85
Stanford University                         Length:         64 lines

Instructions for protecting microcomputers, terminals, and other
electronic equipment during hot weather


Hot summer days can cause heat to build up in microcomputers,
terminals, and other sensitive electronic equipment.  In turn,
excess heat can produce transient transmission and recording errors
or permanently damage the equipment.  Proper precautions can prevent
such problems.

Any electronic equipment generates heat.  The transformers,
rectifiers, CRTs, and other electrically active components each
produce their own amount of heat.  In a well-ventilated or
air-conditioned room, this heat is dissipated fairly rapidly.  In a
room with little air circulation, the heat build-up is rapid and
each heat generating component becomes additive towards the total
BTU output of the equipment.  A dead air room with a temperature of
90 degrees F can quite easily cause an internal equipment
temperature of 100 degrees F.

A heat wave is usually accompanied by an increase in equipment
problems, especially to power supplies and logic boards with power
distribution tasks.  Many of these units have been in
non-air-conditioned areas or enclosed spaces with little air
circulation.  Rooms with portable or window air conditioners
frequently have a higher then normal rate of transmission and record
errors.  The 'use upon demand' air conditioners (turn them on when
you need them) generally do not have large amounts of power
filtering, thus causing noise on power lines.  Also, when they cycle
off and on, power dips and surges are created.

A few hot weather precautions should be taken to avoid problems with
sensitive electronic gear.

 1. If room temperature exceeds 85 degrees F, check the air vents
    in the equipment.  If the air feels hotter then the room air, a
    heat build-up is probably in progress.  A circulating fan or
    opening a door or window to allow for cross circulation may
    help.  If heat build-up continues, turn off the equipment.  You
    can also check for heat build-up by placing a small thermometer
    next to the heat vents.  If the temperature approaches 96 or
    higher, cooling measures must be taken.

 2. If a demand-type air conditioner is used and random
    transmission or recording errors are noted (obviously you have a
    power filter), try plugging the air circulation equipment into
    another plug or room.  If an extension cord is needed, it must
    be of sufficient gauge to handle the load.

These measures are temporary; do not neglect the common sense of
keeping your equipment free from particulate matter and other
constant hazards.  If you open a window, air borne dust will
increase.  If you use a fan, do not put it close to your PC, disk
drive, or other equipment.  The RF and EM emissions can damage a
disk or other digital electronic components.

All equipment has varying tolerances.  Read the equipment manual for
recommended environmental limits.  Keep in mind that these limits
are viewed from what the equipment measures, not what the room feels
like.
