.cs 3 on
.item dsname 'Updated on 06/19/90 by JNK'
.cs 2 on
dsname

.cs 2 off
All data sets saved on a disk volume must have a dsname (data set name) of the
form:

      WYL.gg.uuu.name

gg.uuu\\\\\\\\\\is your account; gg is the two-character group code and uuu is
                the three-character user code.

name\\\\\\\\\\\\is the name by which you refer to the data set.

The dsname for a data set saved on a microcomputer (when you use the Samson
program to connect to the mainframe) uses a different form, described below.

Detailed information is divided into the following sections:

 How to Specify a Dsname
 How to Specify a Member of a Library
 How to Specify a Data Set on a Microcomputer
 Using * as a Dsname

.cs 2 on
How to Specify a Dsname
-----------------------
.cs 2 off
.us How to Specify a Dsname

In commands that require a dsname (e.g.\SAVE, USE), you seldom need to specify
the fully-qualified form of a WYLBUR data set (WYL.gg.uuu.name), since WYLBUR
will construct all or part of the name from default or preset values.  (HELP
SET ACCOUNT and HELP SET PREFIX for a description of default values and how to
change them.)\ Normally, you only have to specify "name" (e.g., SAVE BALLAD,
not SAVE WYL.NR.NCR.BALLAD).  The "name" you decide on should conform to OS
data set naming conventions as follows:

   - It can only contain the characters 0-9, A-Z, or a national character ($,
         #, and @)

   - First character must be alphabetic or a national character

   - It can not exceed eight characters, unless the characters are separated
     by a period (.).  When separated by periods, the name can consist of up
     to 33 characters with no more than eight between the periods (the periods
     count as characters).  However, the first character after each period
     must be an alphabetic or national character.

For example, LONGFILENAME and 4CLASS are both invalid OS data set names.

It is possible to specify a non-standard dsname; however, the name must be
enclosed in apostrophes.  The case of the text inside the apostrophes IS
significant (e.g., '4CLASS' is NOT the same as '4class').  The use of
non-standard dsnames is not recommended since these data sets are more
difficult to access from the batch (OS) system; for example, the BACKUP
utility cannot copy them to tape.

As mentioned above, WYLBUR normally prefixes the names you specify with
WYL.gg.uuu (where WYLBUR replaces gg.uuu with your account), unless the name
begins with "WYL." or "SYSn".  WYLBUR recognizes such names as already
fully-qualified.  Many system disk files, including some available for public
use, begin with SYSn.  In addition, the dsname can be prefixed with $ to
indicate that it is fully-qualified.

Some other ways of specifying data sets on other accounts are available:

@gg.&uuu.dsname                 specifies user and group

&uuu.dsname                     specifies user, default group
                                  assumed

@gg.dsname                      specifies group, default user
                                  assumed

dsname USER uuu                 specifies user, default group
                                  assumed

dsname GROUP gg                 specifies group, default user
                                  assumed

dsname ACCOUNT gg.uuu           specifies user and group

dsname PUBLIC                   assumes PUBLIC file

.pa
.cs 2 on
How to Specify a Member of a Library
------------------------------------
.cs 2 off
.us How to Specify a Member of a Library

There are two special forms of dsnames used when specifying library members:

     WYL.gg.uuu.libname(member)
     WYL.gg.uuu.libname#member

These two forms are equivalent in WYLBUR, but you must use the first form,
with parentheses, when accessing a library member from a batch job.  As usual,
WYLBUR supplies WYL.gg.uuu., if you omit it.  The library name should conform
to the data set naming conventions described above, except that it cannot
exceed eight characters.  The member name must be 8 or fewer characters but it
may include special characters and need not begin with a letter.  If you omit
the library name (e.g. SAVE #DATA), WYLBUR assumes the library named LIB or
whatever name is set in the SET LIBRARY command.  (Type HELP LIBRARY for a
definition of library and member.)\

.cs 2 on
How to Specify a Data Set on a Microcomputer
--------------------------------------------
.cs 2 off
.us How to Specify a Data Set on a Microcomputer

When using the Samson program (MacSamson on a Macintosh), you can specify the
names of files saved on the microcomputer (floppy disk or hard disk).  For
"dsname", you use the following form:

     drive:filename

where "drive" is the one-letter disk drive "name" chosen from the following:

     A:   floppy disk drive  (internal drive on the Macintosh)
     B:   floppy disk drive  (external drive on the Macintosh)
     C:   internal hard disk drive

and "filename" is the name of the file stored (or to be stored) on the disk in
the drive.  No part of the filename can contain blanks.

For the IBM PC, the filename may contain subdirectories, provided the entire
filename doesn't exceed 33 characters.

For the Macintosh, unless you choose a folder as described below, MacSamson
will look for the file (or save it) in the same folder as MacSamson.  If you
need to, the simplest way to specify a file that is within a folder is to
simply name the drive, followed by the colon, e.g.,

     Command> use c:

MacSamson will bring up a standard "use file" or "save file" dialog box as
appropriate, letting you use Macintosh selection techniques to choose or name
the file you want to use or save.

To specify the entire filename in a single command with MacSamson, you need to
include the name of the drive (A, B or C), the name of the diskette in the
drive, the name of any containing folders and the file name, in that order, all
separated by colons (example: C:mydisk:documents:mayletter).  However, none of
the parts may contain blanks, which usually makes this method impractical.

.ix * 'as current dsname'
.cs 2 on
Using * as a Dsname
-------------------
.cs 2 off
.us Using * as a Dsname

Whenever you specify a data set in a USE command (e.g., USE MEMO), WYLBUR
remembers the dsname.  Then after editing the data set, you can replace the
original data set with the revised version by using * in place of a dsname
(e.g., SAVE * REPLACE); WYLBUR supplies the retained dsname.  You can use * as
a dsname on essentially any command that refers to a dsname.

You can also use the SET PREFIX command to establish the value of * as a data
set name.  When you change the value of the dsname with the SET PREFIX command
and then you specify * (e.g., SAVE *), you are indicating that, when
constructing the dsname, WYLBUR should use the prefix you set.  PREFIX (and *)
refer to the complete data set name of the last data set that was used or to
the last PREFIX that was set.  The PREFIX is erased whenever the active file
is cleared.

.optix SET
.optix NOSET
You can also set the dsname by specifying the SET option on any command that
includes a dsname option (e.g., SAVE LIB#MEMO SET).  You can only change the
"name" portion (e.g., LIB#MEMO) with the SET option; not the group and user
fields (gg.uuu).  (Use the SET PREFIX or SET ACCOUNT commands to alter the
group and user fields.)\ SET is the default for the USE command.  When you
specify the NOSET option with the USE command, WYLBUR does NOT set the dsname
you specify as a PREFIX and it erases any previously set dsname.
.cs 3 off
