.cs 3 on
.item library 'Updated on 08/07/95 by MCL' Library
.cs 2 on
library

.cs 2 off
A library is a special kind of data set also called a partitioned data set (or
PDS).  It is made up of a directory and one or more "subfiles" called members.
The directory functions as a table of contents and contains the name of each
member, as well as a pointer to its location within the library.  For each
member, the directory also contains the date and time saved, the account
number that created the member, and an optional title of up to 42 characters.

A library is allocated one or more tracks of disk space.  Each track holds
about 56,000 characters, approximately 850 lines.  Only a fraction of a track
is set aside for each directory block in a library; each block can hold 3 to 7
member names. The members of a library take up only as much space in the
library as they need.  Therefore, you can fit many small members on each
track.  Libraries not only save disk space, they also provide a convenient way
to organize disk files into related groups.

Use the ALLOCATE command to set aside space for a library, for example:

   Command> allocate lib

Type HELP ALLOCATE for a description of setting up a library.  Once you have
allocated a library and saved several members, you may want to issue a SHOW
DIRECTORY command to display the member names and their optional titles.
(Type SHOW DIRECTORY for a description of the command.)\ Note that you can use
an optional title of up to 42 characters as a reminder about what each member
contains.  To specify a title, include a TITLE option when you are saving a
library member, for example:

   Command> save #song title='Blue Kentucky Girl'

Once you have a library, you will have to condense it periodically to remove
the dead space and to allow additional members to be saved.  (Type HELP
CONDENSE for a description of the CONDENSE command.)\ Whenever an attempted
SAVE of a library member cannot be completed because of insufficient space in
the library, WYLBUR prompts you with "Condense (Yes/No)?".  To have the
library condensed, reply YES, Y or OK.  When the condense job is completed,
you may issue your SAVE command again.  You can usually recover a "scratched"
or replaced library member until a library is condensed, so CONDENSE should be
used cautiously if you want to take advantage of that backup feature.
To recover a scratched or replaced member before you condense the
library, type the command:

     UTIL EXHUME

If you cannot SAVE immediately after the completion of the CONDENSE job, you
must expand your library.  To do so, issue the command:

     UTIL LIBMOVE
.cs 3 off
