SYS3.SYSTEM.DOCLIB#APPSTATS                  Last updated 02/13/2003
                                                   Susan Plass

      Background on Mainframe Retirement Statistics Web Pages


In an attempt to quantify the size of the mountain of work remaining
to move mainframe data and work to other platforms, to identify
who should be doing that work, and to monitor progress in getting
it done, a series of Web pages has been constructed to describe
that mountain.  The root Web page is located at

      http://forsythe.stanford.edu/wyl.gs.www.sunset.appclass

This contains a description of the data in each of the snapshot in
time tables and links to those tables.  Most of the cells in each
snapshot table contain links to more detailed information about what
is being counted in that cell.



Where the data comes from
-------------------------

Number of accounts:

    The accounting daily masterfile, WYL.GB.RAS.RAD.DAILY.MASTER(+0),
    is the source for determinating active account numbers.
    Additional information is merged into this list from
    WYL.GS.WWW.SUNSET.DT???.BUCKETS further classifying the account
    usage.

Prism applications:

    Any application that runs on Forsythe and has PRISM as its user
    interface.  PRISM is Stanford's full-screen UI for SPIRES-based
    applications.  The list of Prism applications is derived from
    Prism Profiles.

Spires (not EMS):

    A collection of Orvyl file which comprise a Spires data base
    object including the .mstr, .defq, .res, and .rec components.
    Each collection is counted as a single Spires data base object.
    EMS message files are excluded from this count.

EMS messages:

    The count of Spires EMS message files which were dropped from
    the "Spires (not EMS)" classification.  Again, each collection
    of Orvyl files which comprise an EMS message file is counted as
    a single occurrence.

Orvyl (not SPIRES):

    The count of individual Orvyl files after removing ALL data sets
    which are pieces of a Spires Data Base object.


Wylbur & Batch:

    The count of individual data sets residing on non-system
    volumes.  These data sets are comprised of Wylbur edit format
    data sets, MVS flat files, VSAM data objects, and MVS load
    module libraries.  An MVS partitioned data set is counted as a
    single data set even through it may contain many hundreds of
    members.  This count does not include data sets required by
    the operating system or by the Stanford Timesharing System.


Tape Holdings

    The count of tape volumes belonging to a given Forsythe account.


Instructions for deriving that data
-----------------------------------

    Number of accounts
    Prism applications
    Spires (not EMS & Prism)
    EMS messages
    Orvyl (not SPIRES)
    Wylbur & Batch
    Tape Holdings


Where the result is stored

    Number of accounts
    Prism applications
    Spires (not EMS & Prism)
    EMS messages
    Orvyl (not SPIRES)
    Wylbur & Batch
    Tape Holdings


Criteria for aggregating and/or classifying data

    Accounts
    ????


Data which is included


Data which is excluded

o   Data residing on system disks which is used exclusively
    for operating system components (this goes away without
    being moved when the mainframe goes away)



Other information useful but not included at present

o   Jobs and job networks contained in SUBMIT

o   Jobs and job networks monitored by Production Control

o   Jobs and job networks managed using Cybermation scheduler
